Aspen ,Baker,A better way to talk about abortion,Listener,aspenbaker.com,,,
Noy ,Thrupkaew,Human trafficking is all around you. This is how it works,Global journalist,opensocietyfoundations.org,,Noy Thrupkaew writes on global issues on a local scale. The focus of her studies (and the subject of her forthcoming book) is human trafficking and the exploitative economic systems and corrupt officials behind it. She is a keen critic of the role of anti-trafficking organizations in the struggle against it, calling for long-range approaches that go beyond mere prohibition.,As an independent journalist, Thrupkaew has written for a wide variety of outlets including The Nation , National Geographic and The New York Times.
Ash, Beckham,When to take a stand — and when to let it go,Equality advocate,ashbeckham.com,,Ash Beckham is no stranger to hard conversations. In her work, she shares how coming out as a lesbian helped her appreciate our common humanity and better understand the hardships that we all face. This equality advocate mixes personal experience and wisdom to help everyone bravely face their demons.,
Johann, Hari,Everything you think you know about addiction is wrong,Journalist,chasingthescream.com,,Hari was twice named National Newspaper Journalist of the Year by Amnesty International, was named Gay Journalist of the Year at the Stonewall Awards -- and won the Martha Gellhorn Prize for political writing. For his book Chasing the Scream , he spent three years researching the war on drugs and questioning the ways in which we treat addiction.,
Memory ,Banda,A warrior’s cry against child marriage,Activist,letgirlslead.org,,Memory Banda is a tireless leader for girls' rights around the world. She is leading Malawi's fight to end child marriage through her work with Let Girls Lead and the Girl Empowerment Network of Malawi.,Only 18-years-old, Memory championed a succesful national campaign that culminated in landmark legislation that outlawed child marriage. Memory works with girl leaders to ensure that village chiefs ban child marriage, end sexual initiation practices, enable girls to finish school and live safe from violence in a country where more than half of girls are married as children.
Rajiv ,Maheswaran,The math behind basketball's wildest moves,Researcher,secondspectrum.com,,Sports fans can get obsessed with stats about player performance and game-day physics. But basketball, a fluid and fast-moving game, has been tough to understand through numbers. Rajiv Maheswaran is working to change that, by offering pro basketball teams insight into game data to make better decisions. Maheswaran is the CEO and co-founder of Second Spectrum, a startup transforming sports through technology. He is also a Research Assistant Professor at the University of Southern California's Computer Science Department and a Project Leader at the Information Sciences Institute at the USC Viterbi School of Engineering, where he co-directs the Computational Behavior Group.,His research spans various aspects of multi-agent systems and distributed artificial intelligence using decision-theoretic and game-theoretic frameworks and solutions. His current interests focus on data analytics, visualization and real-time interaction to understand behavior in spatiotemporal domains. Like, say, the spatiotemporal domain around a basketball hoop.
Gayle, Tzemach Lemmon,Meet the women fighting on the front lines of an American war,Reporter,gaylelemmon.com,,Gayle Tzemach Lemmon never set out to write about women entrepreneurs. After leaving ABC News for MBA study at Harvard, she was simply looking for a great -- and underreported -- economics story. What she found was women entrepreneurs in some of the toughest business environments creating jobs against daunting obstacles. Since then her writing on entrepreneurship has been published by the International Herald Tribune and Financial Times along with the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation.,Now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Lemmon continues to travel the world reporting on economic and development issues with a focus on women. She is the author of Ashley's War The Untold Story of a Team of Women Soldiers on the Special Ops Battlefield (2014), as well as the best seller The Dressmaker of Khair Khana (2011) about a young entrepreneur who supported her community under the Taliban.
Latif ,Nasser,The amazing story of the man who gave us modern pain relief,Radio researcher,latifnasser.com,,The history of science is brimming with tales stranger than fiction, says Latif Nasser, who wrote his PhD dissertation on the Tanganyika Laughter Epidemic of 1962 . A writer and researcher, he's now the research director at Radiolab, a job that allows him to dive into archives, talk to interesting people and tell stories as a way to think about science and society.,
Jimmy, Carter,Why I believe the mistreatment of women is the number one human rights abuse,Peace activist,cartercenter.org,,While in office, Jimmy Carter brokered historic peace deals and treaties. Since the 1980s, he has worked tirelessly for conflict resolution around the globe through The Carter Center , where he has engaged in mediation in Ethiopia, Eritrea, North Korea, Liberia, Haiti, Bosnia, Venezuela, Nepal and the Middle East, among many other countries and regions. Under his leadership, The Carter Center has sent 96 election observation missions to the Americas, Africa and Asia. They're also leading the fight against Guinea worm, on track to be the second human disease in history to be eradicated.,In 2002, Carter was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his decades of untiring effort to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance democracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social development. He's a member of the Elders , a group of independent global leaders working for peace and human rights.
Dame, Ellen MacArthur,The surprising thing I learned sailing solo around the world,Circular economy advocate,ellenmacarthur.com,,It's a tradition among British citizens If you circumnavigate the globe by sail, you'll earn royal honors. Ellen MacArthur was made a dame in 2005 after the fastest solo sail around the world. But when you sail alone around the world, things come into focus. Dame Ellen, at the top of her sailing career, had become acutely aware of the finite nature of the resources our linear economy relies on.,In 2010, she launched the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, which works with education and business to accelerate the transition to a regenerative circular economy. She also runs the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust, using sailing to build confidence for kids following cancer treatment.
Chris, Urmson,How a driverless car sees the road,Roboticist,www.ted.com/talks/chris_urmson_how_a_driverless_car_sees_the_road?language=en,,Since 2009, Chris Urmson has headed up Google’s self-driving car program. So far, the team’s vehicles have driven over three quarters of a million miles. While early models included a driverless Prius that TEDsters got to test- ... um, -not-drive in 2011, more and more the team is building vehicles from the ground up, custom-made to go driverless.,Prior to joining Google, Umson was on the faculty of the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, where his research focused on motion planning and perception for robotic vehicles. During his time at Carnegie Mellon, he served as Director of Technology for the team that won the 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge.
Maryn, McKenna,What do we do when antibiotics don’t work any more?,Public health journalist,marynmckenna.com,,Maryn McKenna’s harrowing stories of hunting down anthrax with the CDC and her chronicle of antibiotic-resistant staph infections in Superbug earned her the nickname “scary disease girl” among her colleagues.,But her investigations into public health don’t stop there she blogs and writes on the history of epidemics and the public health challenges posed by factory farming. For her forthcoming book, McKenna is researching the symbiotic history of food production and antibiotics, and how their use impacts our lives, societies and the potential for illness.
Chip, Kidd,The art of first impressions — in design and life,Graphic designer,chipkidd.com,,You know a Chip Kidd book when you see it -- precisely because it's unexpected, non-formulaic, and perfectly right for the text within. As a graphic designer for Alfred A. Knopf since 1986, Kidd has designed shelves full of books, including classics you can picture in a snap Jurassic Park, Naked by David Sedaris, All the Pretty Horses … His monograph, Chip Kidd Book One , contains work spanning two decades. As editor and art director for Pantheon Graphic novels, Kidd has commissioned work from cartoonists including Chris Ware, Art Spiegelman, Dan Clowes and Art Spiegelman. He's a novelist as well, author of The Cheese Monkeys and The Learners .,Chip received the Cooper-Hewitt’s National Design Award for Communication in 2007, the International Center of Photography’s Infinity Award for Design in 1997 and the AIGA Medal in 2014.
Roxane, Gay,Confessions of a bad feminist,Writer,roxanegay.com,,,
Joey, Alexander,An 11-year-old prodigy performs old-school jazz,Jazz pianist,joeyalexandermusic.com,,A native of Bali, Joey Alexander taught himself to play piano by listening to classic jazz albums his father shared with him. Alexander’s father recognized his son’s ear for jazz, and soon he was sitting in on jam sessions with senior musicians. And a (very) few years later, he's playing for worldwide audiences from Jakarta to Copenhagen to Washington, DC.,Influenced by Monk, Coltrane and his mutual fan, Herbie Hancock, Alexander's style is technically fluent and harmonically astute, says the New York Times, and marked by large-canvas musical ideas -- as seen in a legendary rehearsal-room take on Giant Steps in which the shifting chords and dizzy runs fly out from his tiny fingers. His new record, My Favorite Things, was released in 2015.
LaToya, Ruby Frazier,A visual history of inequality in industrial America,Photographer,latoyarubyfrazier.com,,TED Fellow LaToya Ruby Frazier uses photography, video and performance to address issues of industrialism, rustbelt revitalization, environmental justice, healthcare inequality, family and communal history. Some of her work, which features images of her mother and grandmother (Grandma Ruby) was published in her first book, The Notion of Family , which received the International Center for Photography Infinity Award.,She has exhibited her work widely in the United States and elsewhere, with solo exhibitions at the Brooklyn Museum, Seattle Art Museum, the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston and the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston. She is an assistant professor of photography at the School of Art Institute of Chicago, having previously taught at Yale, Rutgers and Syracuse University.
Steve, Silberman,The forgotten history of autism,Writer and editor,stevesilberman.com,,,
Margaret, Heffernan,Why it's time to forget the pecking order at work,Management thinker,MHeffernan.com,,How do organizations think? In her book Willful Blindness , Margaret Heffernan examines why businesses and the people who run them often ignore the obvious -- with consequences as dire as the global financial crisis and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.,Heffernan began her career in television production, building a track record at the BBC before going on to run the film and television producer trade association IPPA. In the US, Heffernan became a serial entrepreneur and CEO in the wild early days of web business. She now blogs for the Huffington Post and BNET.com . Her latest book, Beyond Measure , a TED Books original, explores the small steps companies can make that lead to big changes in their culture.
Rana, el Kaliouby,This app knows how you feel — from the look on your face,Computer scientist,affectiva.com,,Rana el Kaliouby, chief science officer and co-founder of Affectiva , an MIT Media Lab spin-off, is on a mission to bring emotion intelligence to our digital experiences. She leads the company's emotion analytics team, which is responsible for developing emotion-sensing algorithms and mining the world's largest emotion data database. So far, they've collected 12 billion emotion data points from 2.9 million face videos from volunteers in 75 countries. The company’s platform is used by many Fortune Global 100 companies to measure consumer engagement, and is pioneering emotion-enabled digital apps for enterprise, entertainment, video communication and online education.,Entrepreneur magazine called el Kaliouby one of “The 7 Most Powerful Women To Watch in 2014,” and the MIT Technology Review included her in their list of the “Top 35 Innovators Under 35.”
Lee, Mokobe,A powerful poem about what it feels like to be transgender,Poet,www.ted.com/speakers/lerato_mokobe,,Based in Cape Town, Lee Mokobe is an award-winning slam poet and the founder of Vocal Revolutionaries, a volunteer-run literary organization focused on empowering African youth. In 2013, Mokobe's South African slam poetry team, also called Vocal Revolutionaries, made it to the final stage of the Brave New Voices global poetry competition in Chicago. The first team from the African continent to compete, they came second of the 55 teams in the world that were shortlisted.,Mokobe is a teaching artist across the United States and a 2015 TED Fellow.
Donald, Hoffman,Do we see reality as it is?,Cognitive scientist,cogsci.uci.edu,,In his research to uncover the underlying secrets of human perception, Donald Hoffman has discovered important clues pointing to the subjective nature of reality.,Rather than as a set of absolute physical principles, reality is best understood as a set of phenomena our brain constructs to guide our behavior. To put it simply we actively create everything we see, and there is no aspect of reality that does not depend on consciousness.
Sarah, Jones,One woman, five characters, and a sex lesson from the future,Polymorphic playwright,sarahjonesonline.com/,,Chameleon-like barely describes the astonishing ease with which Sarah Jones slips in and out of the characters in her solo performances -- as many as fourteen personae in her Broadway hit Bridge & Tunnel. Critics marvel not only at her ability to perfectly mimic accents and mannerisms, but also to seemingly reshape her body, down to pupils and dimples, in the blink of an eye.,Jones' performances showcase a biting political awareness, and she has received commissions from Equality Now, the Kellogg Foundation and the National Immigration Forum to address issues of injustice and inequality. She is a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador and has given multiple performances at the White House at the invitation of President and First Lady Obama. Jones is now at work on a new solo show called Sell/Buy/Date, commissioned by the Novo Foundation. She debuted material from it at TED2015. She is also working on a commission for Lincoln Center Theater and a television project based on her characters.
Suki, Kim,This is what it's like to teach in North Korea,Writer,sukikim.com,,Suki Kim is the only writer to ever go undercover into North Korea to write a book from the inside. Since 2002, South Korean-born Kim travelled to North Korea, witnessing both Kim Jong-Il's 60th Birthday Celebration and his death at age 69 in 2011.,Her work sheds a new light on the understanding of the North Korean society by delving into its day-to-day life and provides unprecedented insights into the psychology of its ruling class, about whom the world knows very little.
Linda, Cliatt-Wayman,How to fix a broken school? Lead fearlessly, love hard,High school principal,PrincipalWayman.com,,Linda Cliatt-Wayman grew up in poverty in North Philadelphia, where she experienced firsthand the injustice being perpetrated against poor students in their education. She has dedicated her career and her life to ending that injustice, working within Philadelphia's fractured public-school system. She spent 20 years as a special-ed teacher before becoming a principal, leading two low-performing urban high schools to success with improved test scores and increased college admissions among students.,Now at Philadelphia's Strawberry Mansion High School, Wayman and her team are once again proving what is possible for low-income children. Test scores have improved every year since Wayman took over, and the school was removed from the federal Persistently Dangerous Schools List for the first time in five years. Diane Sawyer and her team spent the 2012-2013 school year documenting Wayman’s efforts for ABC World News Tonight and Nightline.
Trevor, Aaronson,How this FBI strategy is actually creating US-based terrorists,Journalist,trevoraaronson.com,,Trevor Aaronson is the executive director of the Florida Center for Investigative Reporting and the author of The Terror Factory Inside the FBI’s Manufactured War on Terrorism . In 2014 he reported and produced  Informants , a one-hour documentary for Al Jazeera Media Network about the FBI’s counterterrorism program. In 2015 he published  To Catch the Devil  with Foreign Policy and  The Sting How the FBI Created a Terrorist  with The Intercept , both about his work on the FBI's counterterrorism methods.,
Tony, Fadell,The first secret of design is ... noticing,Product creator,nest.com/blog/author/tony-fadell/,,Tony Fadell became a tech superstar as a colleague of Steve Jobs and developer of the iPod, which rejuvenated Apple, rebooted entire industries and changed the way the world consumes entertainment.,After leaving Apple, Fadell founded Nest on a familiar experience -- frustration with household technology, still resolutely frozen in the 20th century. With its first products, Nest has brought the modern household one step closer to becoming a truly connected “smarthome.” In January 2014, Nest became Google’s second-biggest acquisition to date, positioning both companies to become revolutionary players in home technology.
Laura, Schulz,The surprisingly logical minds of babies,Cognitive scientist,eccl.mit.edu,,MIT Early Childhood Cognition Lab lead investigator Laura Schulz studies learning in early childhood. Her research bridges computational models of cognitive development and behavioral studies in order to understand the origins of inquiry and discovery.,Working in play labs, children’s museums, and a recently-launched citizen science website, Schultz is reshaping how we view young children’s perceptions of the world around them. Some of the surprising results of her research before the age of four, children expect hidden causes when events happen probabilistically, use simple experiments to distinguish causal hypotheses, and trade off learning from instruction and exploration.
Bill, Gross,The single biggest reason why startups succeed,Idea guy,Idealab.com,,Bill Gross is the founder of Idealab, a business incubator focused on new ideas. (He's now the chair and CEO.) He helped create GoTo.com, the first sponsored search company. He also created the Snap! search engine, which allows users to preview hyperlinks.,Gross has been an entrepreneur since high school, when he founded a solar energy company. In college, he patented a new loudspeaker design, and after school he started a company that was later acquired by Lotus, and then launched an educational software publishing company. Now, he serves on the boards of companies in the areas of automation, software and renewable energy.
Jimmy, Nelson,Gorgeous portraits of the world's vanishing people,Last tribes photographer,beforethey.com,,“There is a pure beauty in their goals and family ties, their belief in gods and nature, and their will to do the right thing in order to be taken care of when their time comes. Whether in Papua New Guinea or in Kazakhstan, in Ethiopia or in Siberia, tribes are the last resorts of natural authenticity.” — beforethey.com,
Sara, Seager,The search for planets beyond our solar system,Exoplanet expert,seagerexoplanets.mit.edu,,“Thanks to her research, vast outer space is starting to feel within humanity’s grasp again. ” — OZY.com,
Yassmin, Abdel-Magied,What does my headscarf mean to you?,Mechanical engineer, social advocate,redefiningthenarrative.com.au,,Yassmin Abdel-Magied is on a mission to promote diversity throughout society, however and wherever she can. Born in Sudan, she moved to Australia when she was two years old, and trained as a mechanical engineer. She now spends her time both working as an engineering specialist on oil and gas rigs -- and heading up Youth Without Borders , the organization she founded to enable young people to work for positive change in their communities.,Named the 2015 Queensland Young Australian of the Year, Yassmin advocates for the empowerment of youth, women and those from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. In 2007, she was named Young Australian Muslim of the Year. She also really like motorsports.
Jeffrey, Brown,How we cut youth violence in Boston by 79 percent,Pastor,recapevents.org,,,
Chris, Burkard,The joy of surfing in ice-cold water,Surf photographer,chrisburkard.com,,For most people, surfing evokes sunny sand and warm, blue water in tropical locales. In his book Distant Shores , self-taught photographer Chris Burkard detours to the coastlines of Norway, Iceland and Alaska, shooting surfers as they ride waves on icy beaches that have rarely been photographed -- let alone surfed.,Traveling to often dangerous extremes to discover unknown landscapes, Burkard composes images that transcend the simple action shots of action photography, placing nature at the center of his compositions.
Esther, Perel,Rethinking infidelity ... a talk for anyone who has ever loved,Relationship therapist,EstherPerel.com,,Psychotherapist Esther Perel is changing the conversation on what it means to be in love and have a fulfilling sex life. For the first time in human history, couples aren't having sex just to have kids, there's room for sustained desire, for couples to cultivate long-term sexual relationships. But how? Perel, a licensed marriage and family therapist, travels the world to help people answer this question.,For her research Perel works across cultures and is herself fluent in nine languages. She coaches and consults with organizations and families, holds a private psychotherapy practice in New York, and speaks regularly on erotic intelligence, trauma, conflict resolution and infidelity. She is the author of Mating in Captivity Reconciling the Erotic and the Domestic .
Steven, Wise,Chimps have feelings and thoughts. They should also have rights,Animal rights lawyer,www.wisela.org/,,Using a long-term litigation campaign based on existing habeas corpus law, Steven Wise and the Nonhuman Rights Project are redefining the playing field for animal rights law. While the high-profile New York lawsuits Wise has initiated on behalf of captive chimpanzees have yet to bear fruit, they’re only the first stage of a strategy that is changing the conversation about animal rights.,Wise’s work with the Nonhuman Rights Project is the subject of Unlocking the Cage , a forthcoming film by Chris Hegedus and D.A. Pennebaker.
Cosmin, Mihaiu,Physical therapy is boring — play a game instead,Physical therapy entrepreneur,mirarehab.com,,When Cosmin Mihaiu noticed that injured patients hated physical therapy — and often took longer to recover because of it — he dedicated himself to making the dreaded process more engaging, or even fun. In 2011 he and his colleagues founded MIRA Rehab , where they develop software that lets patients play interactive, therapeutic games.,As MIRA’s CEO, Mihaiu now focuses on building relationships with medical institutions around the US and the UK, showing them how video games can make recovery more effective for patients and physical therapists alike.
Martine, Rothblatt,My daughter, my wife, our robot, and the quest for immortality,Transhumanist,unither.com,,After creating satellite radio with a startup that went on to become Sirius XM, Martine Rothblatt was on the verge of retirement. But her daughter’s rare lung disease inspired her to start United Therapeutics and develop an oral medication that changed the lives of thousands of patients. Now with the Terasem Foundation , she’s researching the digital preservation of personality as a means to enable the contents of our minds to outlast our bodies.,Rothblatt’s books include The Apartheid of Sex , which (inspired by her experiences as a transgendered woman) takes on conventional wisdom surrounding gender. Her latest book, Virtually Human , explores human rights for the digital lifeforms just over the horizon.
The Lady, Lifers,A moving song from women in prison for life,Inmates,experimentaltheology.blogspot.com/2015/05/the-lady-lifers.html,,“I’m a woman, I’m a grandmother, I’m a daughter, I have a son,” sings Brenda Watkins, lead vocalist for The Lady Lifers. “I’m not an angel, I’m not the devil. I came to jail when I was so young.”,The Lady Lifers are a chorus of women serving life sentences in Muncy State Prison in Pennsylvania. While they are often known by their inmate numbers, they also have names Brenda Watkins, Dannielle Hadley, Debra Lee Brown, Theresa Battles, Diane Metzger, Thelma Nichols, Joann Butler, Lena Brown, Trina Garnett, Naomi Blount. Together, they sing about their hopes and fears, including the very real possibility that they may die alone in prison.
Roman, Mars,Why city flags may be the worst-designed thing you've never noticed,Digital storyteller,romanmars.com,,From its humble beginnings in his home, Roman Mars’ podcast and radio show 99% Invisible accumulated a massive following to become a broadcast and internet phenomenon. Its premise -- 10- to 20-minute episodes focused on a single compelling story -- subverts public radio’s reliance on long, strictly formatted shows, and has garnered national praise.,Over a series of three runaway crowdsourced fundraising campaigns, 99% Invisible generated over $1.2 million, making Mars the most successful crowdfunded journalist in Kickstarter history.
Elora, Hardy,Magical houses, made of bamboo,Sustainable designer,Ibuku.com,,Growing up in Bali with two artist parents, Elora Hardy’s creativity led her to design prints for one of New York's biggest fashion houses. Then, in a dramatic shift, she moved back home and founded Ibuku, a team that builds bespoke homes made and furnished almost entirely of bamboo.,The strength of this abundant local grass allows for towering, curvilinear structures with a notable sense of luminosity and comfort. Ibuku builds on a design process and an engineering system that were first established at the nearby Green School. Five years ago, Elora and her team chose one humble material, and with it they are building a whole new world.
Anand, Varma,The first 21 days of a bee’s life,Photographer,varmaphoto.com,,Anand Varma is a freelance photographer and videographer who started photographing natural history subjects while studying biology at the University of California, Berkeley. He spent several years assisting David Liittschwager before receiving a National Geographic Young Explorer grant to document the wetlands of Patagonia.,Varma has since become a regular contributor to National Geographic. His first feature story, called “Mindsuckers,” was published on the November 2014 cover of the magazine. This incredible look at parasites won Varma the World Press Photo's first prize in the nature category in 2015.
Dawn, Landes,A song for my hero, the woman who rowed into a hurricane,Singer-songwriter,dawnlandes.com,,,
Tal, Danino,Programming bacteria to detect cancer (and maybe treat it),Synthetic biologist,taldanino.com,,Tal Danino's research focuses on understanding how networks of genes interact in biological systems, and developing design principles to re-engineer new biological behaviors that have practical applications. He is a postdoctoral fellow at MIT in the Laboratory for Multiscale Regenerative Technologies , Sangeeta Bhatia's lab, as well as a visiting fellow at the Rockefeller University in New York City. As a postdoctoral fellow, he researches the use of bacteria as cancer diagnostics and therapeutics. His research has been published in scientific journals such as Nature, Science, and Cell .,Danino also develops  Bio-Art  projects that share images and stories about science, as in his recent collaboration with Vik Muniz . In 2015, Tal was selected as a TED Fellow.
Bill, T. Jones,The dancer, the singer, the cellist ... and a moment of creative magic,Cellist,JoshuaRoman.com,,Dubbed a “Classical Rock Star” by the press, cellist Joshua Roman has earned a national reputation for performing a wide range of repertoire with an absolute commitment to communicating the essence of the music at its most organic level. Before embarking on a solo career, he was for two seasons principal cellist of the Seattle Symphony, a position he won in 2006 at the age of 22. For his ongoing creative initiatives on behalf of classical music, he has been selected as a 2011 TED Fellow, joining a select group of Next Generation innovators who have shown unusual accomplishments and the potential to positively affect the world. Roman’s 2009–10 season engagements include debuts as concerto soloist with the San Francisco Symphony, as well as the Albany, Arkansas, and Santa Barbara Symphonies, the New Philharmonic Orchestra in Illinois, Oklahoma’s Signature Symphony, and Kentucky’s Lexington Philharmonic. In recent seasons he has performed with the Seattle Symphony, where he gave the world premiere of David Stock’s Cello Concerto, as well as with the Symphonies of Edmonton, Quad City, Spokane, and Stamford, and the Oklahoma City Philharmonic, among others. In 2008, Roman performed Britten’s third Cello Suite during New York’s Mostly Mozart Festival in a pre-concert recital at Avery Fisher Hall. In April 2009, he was the only guest artist invited to play an unaccompanied solo during the YouTube Symphony Orchestra’s debut concert at Carnegie Hall. In addition to his solo work, Roman is an avid chamber music performer. He has enjoyed collaborations with veterans like Earl Carlyss and Christian Zacharias, as well as the Seattle Chamber Music Society and the International Festival of Chamber Music in Lima, Peru. He often joins forces with other dynamic young soloists and performers from New York’s contemporary music scene, including Alarm Will Sound, So Percussion, and artists from the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center’s CMS Two. In spring 2007, he was named Artistic Director of TownMusic, an experimental chamber music series at Town Hall in Seattle, where he creates programs that feature new works and reflect the eclectic range of his musical influences and inspirations. Committed to making music accessible to a wider audience, Roman may be found anywhere from a club to a classroom, whether performing jazz, rock, chamber music, or a solo sonata by Bach or Kodály. His versatility as a performer and his ongoing exploration of new concertos, chamber music, and solo cello works have spawned projects with composers such as Aaron Jay Kernis, Mason Bates, and Dan Visconti. One of Roman’s current undertakings is an online video series calledThe Popper Project—wherever the cellist and his laptop find themselves, he performs an étude from David Popper’s “High School of Cello Playing” and uploads it, unedited, to his YouTube channel. Roman’s outreach endeavors have taken him to Uganda with his violin-playing siblings, where they played chamber music in schools, HIV/AIDS centers, and displacement camps, communicating a message of hope through music.,
Abe, Davis,New video technology that reveals an object's hidden properties,Computer scientist,www.abedavis.com/,,MIT PhD student, computer vision wizard and rap artist Abe Davis has co-created the world’s most improbable audio instrument. In 2014, Davis and his collaborators debuted the “visual microphone,” an algorithm that samples the sympathetic vibrations of ordinary objects (such as a potato chip bag) from ordinary high-speed video footage and transduces them into intelligible audio tracks.,Davis is also the author of Caperture, a 3D-imaging app designed to create and share 3D images on any compatible smartphone.
Pamela, Ronald,The case for engineering our food,Plant geneticist,cropgeneticsinnovation.org,,As a proponent of sustainable agriculture using the most appropriate technologies, UC Davis researcher Pamela Ronald’s holistic vision startles some. But the success of her genetic tinkering is uncontroversial it shows that genetic improvement is a critical component of feeding the world without further destroying the environment.,Her book Tomorrow’s Table (co-authored with organic farmer Raoul Adamchak) argues that to advance sustainable agriculture, we must not focus on how a seed variety was developed. Instead we must ask what technology most enhances local food security and can provide safe, abundant and nutritious food to consumers.
Alice, Goffman,How we're priming some kids for college — and others for prison,Urban sociologist,Wisc.edu,,As an undergraduate studying sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, Alice Goffman was inspired to write her senior thesis about the lives of the young people living in the historic African-American neighborhood that surrounded the school. She lived side-by-side with a group of young men in one of the US’s most distressed communities, experiencing a troubling and rarely discussed side of urban policing -- the beatings, late night raids and body searches that systematically pit young men against authority.,Goffman spent six years in the community, the work transforming into her dissertation at Princeton and then into the book, On the Run . In it, Goffman weaves groundbreaking research into a narrative amplifying neglected and often-ignored voices into a stirring, personal indictment of the social, economic and political forces that unwittingly conspire to push entire communities to the margins of society.
Sophie, Scott,Why we laugh,Neuroscientist, stand-up comic,www.sophiescott.com.au/,,As deputy director of the University College London’s Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, Sophie Scott seeks out the neurological basis of communication, whether it’s speech or vocalized emotion.,As a pioneering researcher in the science of laughter, she’s made some unexpected discoveries -- including that rats are ticklish, and that the one tactic that’s almost guaranteed to get someone to laugh is to show them someone else laughing. But as an occasional stand-up comedian with UCL’s Bright Club, she shows that she’s no slouch at getting laughs herself.
Greg, Gage,How to control someone else's arm with your brain,Neuroscientist,BackyardBrains.com,,As half of Backyard Brains , neuroscientist and engineer Greg Gage builds the SpikerBox -- a small rig that helps kids understand the electrical impulses that control the nervous system. He's passionate about helping students understand (viscerally) how our brains and our neurons work, because, as he said onstage at TED2012, we still know very little about how the brain works -- and we need to start inspiring kids early to want to know more.,Before becoming a neuroscientist, Gage worked as an electrical engineer making touchscreens. As he told the Huffington Post  Scientific equipment in general is pretty expensive, but it's silly because before [getting my PhD in neuroscience] I was an electrical engineer, and you could see that you could make it yourself. So we started as a way to have fun, to show off to our colleagues, but we were also going into classrooms around that time and we thought, wouldn't it be cool if you could bring these gadgets with us so the stuff we were doing in advanced Ph.D. programs in neuroscience, you could also do in fifth grade? His latest pieces of gear the Roboroach, a cockroach fitted with an electric backpack that makes it turn on command, and BYB SmartScope, a smartphone-powered microscope.
Nick, Bostrom,What happens when our computers get smarter than we are?,Philosopher,nickbostrom.com,,“Bostrom cogently argues that the prospect of superintelligent machines is ‘the most important and most daunting challenge humanity has ever faced.’ If we fail to meet this challenge, he concludes, malevolent or indifferent artificial intelligence (AI) will likely destroy us all.” — Reason, September 12, 2014,
Nizar ,Ibrahim,How we unearthed the Spinosaurus,Paleontologist,nationalgeographic.com,,Paleontologist Nizar Ibrahim, a postdoc at the University of Chicago, wanted to uncover the mystery of the Spinosaurus, a gigantic predatory dinosaur whose only known remains were lost during World War II. After identifying a new skeleton at a dig in North Africa, Ibrahim made the landmark conclusion that the Spinosaurus may have been the largest carnivorous dinosaur to ever live. Its crocodile-like head, dense bones, short legs, and wide, paddle feet suggest it was a water dweller unlike any other. “The entire skeleton has water-loving river monster written all over it,” he says.,Ibrahim is a TED Fellow and a National Geographic Emerging Explorer .
Clint, Smith,How to raise a black son in America,Poet, teacher,ClintSmithIII.com,,,
Chris, Milk,How virtual reality can create the ultimate empathy machine,Interactive storyteller,milk.co,,“Milk has found a world where his childhood dreams are not only realised but surpassed.” — The Guardian, June 30, 2014,
Jedidah, Isler,How I fell in love with quasars, blazars and our incredible universe,Astrophysicist,JedidahIslerPhD.com,,Jedidah Isler has been staring at the stars since she was 11 or 12. But because neither her undergraduate college or the university where she got her first master’s degree offered astronomy majors, she threw herself wholeheartedly into physics. It wasn’t until she entered a doctoral program that she was able to dedicate her time to the studying the night sky. In 2014, she became the first African-American woman to receive a Ph.D in Astrophysics from Yale.,Isler studies blazars — supermassive hyperactive black holes at the center of galaxies, some of which emit powerful streams of particles. Sometimes these are oriented toward Earth, offering us a unique perspective on the physics of the universe. Isler is a Chancellor’s Faculty Fellow in Physics at Syracuse University. She participates in the Future Faculty Leader program at Harvard's Center for Astrophysics and was named a 2015 TED Fellow.
Gary, Haugen,The hidden reason for poverty the world needs to address now,Human rights attorney,ijm.org,,While a member of the 1994 United Nations team investigating war crimes in Rwanda, Gary Haugen’s eyes were opened to the appalling extent of violence in the developing world. Upon his return to the US, he founded International Justice Mission, an organization devoted to rescuing victims of global violence including trafficking and slavery.,In The Locust Effect , Haugen outlines the catastrophic effect of everyday violence on the lives of the impoverished, and shows how rampant violence is undermining efforts to alleviate poverty.
Nathalie, Cabrol,How Mars might hold the secret to the origin of life,Planetary explorer,cabrol.seti.org,,While hunting for life in the fragile biomes of the Andes, Nathalie Cabrol has braved earthquakes, set a diving record and gathered data on the threats faced by mountain ecosystems in the face of climate change.,But Cabrol’s eyes are always fixed on Mars, which may have once had a climate similar to Earth’s mountain deserts. As a science team member for NASA, Cabrol helps design interplanetary experiments for the Martian Spirit rover, and researches new technologies for future missions to Mars and beyond.
Paul, Tudor Jones II,Why we need to rethink capitalism,Investor,www.internationalpeaceandconflict.org/video,,Paul Tudor Jones II started to work on Wall Street in 1976. If there was ever a free market free-for-all, this was it, he says. Men wearing ties but acting like gladiators fought literally and physically for a profit. Jones emerged victorious, and as founder of Tudor Investment Corporation and other companies within the Tudor Group, he engages in trading in the fixed income, equity, currency and commodity markets. Headquartered in Greenwich, Connecticut, Tudor manages some $13.7 billion and employs almost 400 people.,Jones is an active philanthropist, including founding the Robin Hood Foundation and the Excellence Charter School, and he sits on the Boards of Just Capital, National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, Everglades Foundation, and Sonima Foundation. He is also a trustee of NYU's Langone Medical Center.
Takaharu, Tezuka,The best kindergarten you’ve ever seen,Architect,www.tezuka-arch.com/english/,,,
Kailash, Satyarthi,How to make peace? Get angry,Children’s rights activist,kailashsatyarthi.net,,Kailash’s work has involved organizing almost weekly raid, rescue and recovery missions on workplaces that employ and enslave children. Since 2001, Satyarthi’s has risked his own life to rescue these children and has convinced families in more than 300 Indian villages to avoid sending their children to work, and instead putting them in school. Satyarthi’s has also managed to grab and retain the world’s attention on the problem. He organized the Global March Against Child Labor in the 1990s to raise awareness and free millions of children shackled in various forms of modern slavery. His activism was also instrumental in the adoption of Convention No. 182 by the International Labour Organization, a statue that's become a guideline for many governments on child labor. In 2014, he and Malala Yousafzai were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for “their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education.”,“Despite saving almost 80,000 children from child labor, and now adding the world’s most famous award to his name, Kailash Satyarthi has always relentlessly sought to do more.” — Ben Doherty, The Guardian
Barat, Ali Batoor,My desperate journey with a human smuggler,Photojournalist,batoor.com,,Barat Ali Batoor is a member of the Hazara ethnic group, once from Afghanistan, then driven into Pakistan. He started work as a photographer in 2002, documenting his people's ancestral home of Afghanistan. His photos have appeared in the Washington Post, Newweek, the Wall Street Journal, Stern and many other publications. He held his first solo exhibition in 2007, and has been exhibited around the world.,Watch a short conversation with Batoor in the TEDxSydney studio >>
Fred, Jansen,How to land on a comet,Space explorer,www.fred-janssen-autos.nl/,,Fred Jansen manages the European Space Agency’s Rosetta mission, which guided a probe into orbit around a comet and dispatched a lander to its surface -- both firsts in space exploration. Although the lander Philae could not accomplish its full mission before going into hibernation, the data it’s already gathered will immeasurably multiply our knowledge of comets and their contributions to the ingredients of life on Earth. In addition to his work with the Rosetta Mission, Jansen oversees the ESA’s XMM-Newton, an orbiting x-ray space observatory delving into the most elusive secrets of the universe, including black holes and dark matter.,““...the Rosetta mission is far from over. For many scientists, the excitement is just beginning.”” — Wired, November 25, 2014
Dan, Ariely,How equal do we want the world to be? You'd be surprised,Behavioral economist,predictablyirrational.com,,Dan Ariely is a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University and a founding member of the Center for Advanced Hindsight. He is the author of the bestsellers Predictably Irrational , The Upside of Irrationality , and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty . Through his research and his (often amusing and unorthodox) experiments, he questions the forces that influence human behavior and the irrational ways in which we often all behave.,“If you want to know why you always buy a bigger television than you intended, or why you think it's perfectly fine to spend a few dollars on a cup of coffee at Starbucks, or why people feel better after taking a 50-cent aspirin but continue to complain of a throbbing skull when they're told the pill they took just cost one penny, Ariely has the answer.” — Daniel Gross, Newsweek
Eduardo, Sáenz de Cabezón,Math is forever,Math educator,dblp.uni-trier.de,,Eduardo Sáenz de Cabezón links science with humor and stories. He studied theology and has a PhD in mathematics from the University of La Rioja. He speaks on these two topics in universities and secondary schools as a storyteller for children, youth and adults. Sáenz de Cabezón has also been a professor of Computer Information Systems, Discrete Mathematics and Algebra at the University of La Rioja since 2010.,He won the FameLab contest for scientific monologues in Spain in 2013.
Bel, Pesce,5 ways to kill your dreams,Entrepreneur,BelPesce.com,,Bel Pesce has worked at big technology companies — in at internship at Microsoft, she led the team for Microsoft Touchless and, as an intern at Google, she worked to improve the Google Translate system. She has also worked in finance, at Deutsche Bank, and helped launch several startups — most notably, the video platform Ooyala and Lemon Wallet, an app that replicates the contents of your wallet on your phone. But for her latest venture, Pesce is looking to inspire. She has opened a school, FazINOVA, which is dedicated to helping students — both in live courses in Sao Paulo, Brazil, and online — persevere toward their dreams. The school has grown tremendously since its establishment in 2013.,Pesce, a TED Fellow, is also the author of three books The Brazilian Girl from Silicon Valley , Superheroes WANTED and The Girl from Silicon Valley 2 . She has been named one of the 100 most influential people of Brazil by Época Magazine .
Bill, Gates,The next outbreak? We’re not ready,Philanthropist,gatesfoundation.org,,Bill Gates is the founder and former CEO of Microsoft. A geek icon, tech visionary and business trailblazer, Gates' leadership -- fueled by his long-held dream that millions might realize their potential through great software -- made Microsoft a personal computing powerhouse and a trendsetter in the Internet dawn. Whether you're a suit, chef, quant, artist, media maven, nurse or gamer, you've probably used a Microsoft product today. In summer of 2008, Gates left his day-to-day role with Microsoft to focus on philanthropy. Holding that all lives have equal value (no matter where they're being lived) , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has now donated staggering sums to HIV/AIDS programs, libraries, agriculture research and disaster relief -- and offered vital guidance and creative funding to programs in global health and education. Gates believes his tech-centric strategy for giving will prove the killer app of planet Earth's next big upgrade.,Read a collection of Bill and Melinda Gates' annual letters , where they take stock of the Gates Foundation and the world. And follow his ongoing thinking on his personal website, The Gates Notes . His new paper, The Next Epidemic, is published by the New England Journal of Medicine.
Boniface, Mwangi,The day I stood up alone,,bonifacemwangi.com,,,
Kevin, Rudd,Are China and the US doomed to conflict?,International relations expert,kevinrudd.com,,Drawing on a deep knowledge of Chinese culture, language and history (and as a Senior Fellow with Harvard’s Belfer Center), Kevin Rudd and his colleagues study alternate courses for US-China relations that guide us away from a seemingly inevitable confrontation. As Prime Minister during the global financial crisis (and as one of the founders of the G20), Rudd helped keep Australia out of recession with a stimulus strategy lauded by the IMF as exemplary among its member states. Rudd is also President of the Asia Society Policy Institute, a think tank specializing in Asian affairs.,In March 2015, Rudd published  China under Xi Jinping Alternative Futures for U.S.-China Relations , a series of three addresses on American and Chinese values, perceptions, interests, and strategic intentions, and their impact on the possibility of developing a common narrative for U.S.-China relations for the future.
Daniel, Kish,How I use sonar to navigate the world,Perceptual navigation specialist,WorldAccessfortheBlind.org,,When he was 13 months old, Daniel Kish lost both eyes to retinal cancer. Driven by fearless curiosity, he taught himself to navigate by clicking his tongue and listening for echoes -- a method science calls echolocation, and that Kish calls FlashSonar. In 2000, Kish founded World Access for the Blind as a platform to teach FlashSonar, along with other methods that the blind can use to “see” and that the sighted can use to expand their awareness. Kish and many researchers believe that echolocation produces images similar to sight, and allows the visually impaired to transcend the limited expectations of society.,“Daniel Kish has been sightless since he was a year old. Yet he can mountain bike. And navigate the wilderness alone. And recognize a building as far away as 1,000 feet. How? The same way bats can see in the dark.” — Men’s Journal, March 2011
Alison, Killing,There’s a better way to die, and architecture can help,Architect,killingarchitects.com,,Alison Killing is an architect and urban designer working to engage people with their built environment, via design of buildings and urban strategies, film making, exhibitions and events. She explores the relationship between death and modern architecture, looking at how cities are rebuilt after disaster.,Recent projects include Death in the City (and its first iteration, Death in Venice, which was shown as an independent event during the opening week of the Venice Architecture Biennale), a touring exhibition about death and modern architecture, work with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies on better rebuilding after disaster and how to integrate relevant urban design tools into humanitarian response, and a study of financial models for arts and community projects temporarily using vacant buildings to help these projects become self-sustaining.
Dame, Stephanie Shirley,Why do ambitious women have flat heads?,Entrepreneur and philanthropist,steveshirley.com,,In the austerity of post-World War II England, jobs were few, and opportunities for women to earn a wage were even fewer. So, on her dining room table, Stephanie Shirley founded the kind of company she'd like to work for -- one that posed challenging, rewarding tasks, built around flexible work rules that made it possible to have a real life. Her software company, Freelance Programmers made her one of the richest women in England (and one of the few to have earned her own money). Initially employing only women -- Shirley often bid for contracts as Steve to compete in the male-dominated industry -- the company was eventually valued at $3 billion, while 70 of the staff became millionaires when it floated on the stock market.,But money wasn't Shirley's object. A lot of people go into business to make money, she told the Guardian . I really didn't, I went in with a mission for women. Conversely, I was determined never, ever to be poor again. Freelance Programmers became the FI Group became Xansa, it was acquired by Steria in 2007.
Theaster, Gates,How to revive a neighborhood with imagination, beauty and art,Artist, potter, community builder,theastergates.com,,Theaster Gates is helping to define the future of artistic place-based efforts, in research and practice. Beginning with interventions in small-scale residences now known as Dorchester Projects , Gates’ houses in Greater Grand Crossing in Chicago have become a nexus for globally engaged experiments in structures of individual and collective living, working and art-making. Launched into the international art world at Documenta(13) , the houses embodied a new system of values and celebrated both a flexible use of space and provided a way for artists, visitors and students to connect and collaborate.,The latest example of this kind of work is the Stony Island Arts Bank , set to open for the Chicago Architecture Biennial in October 2015. Gates will convert a formerly derelict bank on Chicago's south side to create an artwork -- and a communal and creative space.
Dave, Isay,Everyone around you has a story the world needs to hear,Story collector,StoryCorps.org,,From the first interview he recorded, 2015 TED Prize winner and MacArthur Fellow Dave Isay knew he’d found his calling preserving the stories of everyday Americans. Since then, Isay has amassed hundreds of thousands of recordings, most of previously unheard or ignored voices, all speaking in their own words. The archives of StoryCorps -- which Isay founded in 2003 -- are included at the Library of Congress’ American Folklife Center, and now constitute the largest single collection of recorded voices in history.,StoryCorps invites friends, loved ones and strangers to conduct 40-minute interviews at intimate recording booths in Atlanta, Chicago, San Francisco, and (until 2011) New York, as well as in mobile studios nationwide. Offering moving and surprising glimpses into the hearts of often marginalized and forgotten subjects, the interviews are a familiar feature of NPR’s Morning Edition and Storycorps.org.
Anand, Giridharadas,A tale of two Americas. And the mini-mart where they collided,Author,anand.ly,,,“Remarkable… a richly detailed, affecting account… Giridharadas seeks less to uplift than illuminate.” — Ayad Akhtar, New York Times Book Review, May 8, 2014
Fei-Fei, Li,How we're teaching computers to understand pictures,Computer scientist,vision.stanford.edu,,“Computer software only recently became smart enough to recognize objects in photographs. Now, Stanford researchers using machine learning have created a system that takes the next step, writing a simple story of what's happening in any digital image.” — Stanford News, November 18, 2014,
Monica, Lewinsky,The price of shame,Social activist,vanityfair.com/monica-lewinsky,,After becoming the focus of the history-changing federal investigation into her private life, Monica Lewinsky found herself, at 24 years old, one of the first targets of a “culture of humiliation” a now-familiar cycle of media, political and personal harassment – particularly online.,Lewinsky survived to reclaim her personal narrative. During a decade of silence she received her Masters in Social Psychology from the London School of Economics and Political Science. In 2014, Lewinsky returned to the public eye with an acclaimed essay for Vanity Fair, which has been nominated for a National Magazine Award for best Essay Writing, and with a widely viewed speech at Forbes’ 30 Under 30 Summit.
Joseph, DeSimone,What if 3D printing was 100x faster?,Chemist, inventor,carbon3d.com,,Joseph DeSimone is a scholar, inventor and serial entrepreneur. A longtime professor at UNC-Chapel Hill, he's taken leave to become the CEO at Carbon3D, the Silicon Valley 3D printing company he co-founded in 2013. DeSimone, an innovative polymer chemist, has made breakthrough contributions in fluoropolymer synthesis, colloid science, nano-biomaterials, green chemistry and most recently 3D printing. His company's Continuous Liquid Interface Production (CLIP) suggests a breakthrough way to make 3D parts.,Read the paper in Science . Authors John R. Tumbleston, David Shirvanyants, , Nikita Ermoshkin, Rima Janusziewicz, Ashley R. Johnson, David Kelly, Kai Chen, Robert Pinschmidt, Jason P. Rolland, Alexander Ermoshkin, Edward T. Samulsk.
David, Eagleman,Can we create new senses for humans?,Neuroscientist,eagleman.com,,As the creator of stacks of compelling research, books and now the 6-part PBS series The Brain, grey matter expert David Eagleman is our most visible evangelist for neuroscience. He has helmed ground-breaking studies on time perception, brain plasticity and neurolaw. His latest research explores technology that bypasses sensory impairment -- such as a smartphone-controlled vest that translates sound into patterns of vibration for the deaf.,Eagleman is also the author of Sum , an internationally bestselling short story collection speculating on life, death and what it means to be human. Translated into 28 languages, Sum has been turned into two separate operas at the Sydney Opera House and the Royal Opera House in London.
Robyn, Stein DeLuca,The good news about PMS,Psychologist,delucainsight.com/,,,
Vincent, Cochetel,I was held hostage for 317 days. Here's what I thought about…,Humanitarian,UNHCR.org,,Vincent Cochetel is the Director of the Bureau for Europe at the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). There he focuses on the specific challenges of the region — maintaining quality in asylum-seeking procedures, ensuring access to protection for those fleeing the conflict in Syria, combatting a rise in xenophobia, and allocating resources for those affected by conflicts of the past.,In 1998, Cochetel was kidnapped near Chechnya. For 317 days, he was chained to a bed frame in a cellar and deprived of light. But far from withdrawing from humanitarian work, the experience made him more determined than ever to improve the rights of refugees worldwide. He has written articles on numerous refugee issues and contributed to the drafting of several UNHCR training manuals related to staff safety, emergency management, and protection.
Linda, Hill,How to manage for collective creativity,Management professor,collectivegeniusbook.com,,Linda A. Hill is the Wallace Brett Donham Professor of Business Administration at the Harvard Business School. In 2014, Professor Hill co-authored Collective Genius The Art and Practice of Leading Innovation . It features thick descriptions of exceptional leaders of innovation in a wide range of industries—from information technology to law to design—and geographies—from the US and Europe to the Middle East and Asia. Business Insider named Collective Genius one of “The 20 Best Business Books” in summer 2014.,She is the faculty chair of the Leadership Initiative and has chaired numerous HBS Executive Education programs, including the Young She is the co-author, with Kent Lineback, of Being the Boss The 3 Imperatives of Becoming a Great Leader and Breakthrough Leadership, a blended cohort-based program that helps organizations transform midlevel managers into more effective leaders. Breakthrough Leadership was the winner of the 2013 Brandon Hall Group Award for Best Advance in Unique Learning Technology. The book was included in the Wall Street Journal as one of the “Five Business Books to Read for Your Career in 2011. She is also the author of Becoming a Manager How New Managers Master the Challenges of Leadership (2nd Edition). She heads up Harvard's Presidents' Organization Presidents' Seminar and the High Potentials Leadership Program, and was course head during the development of the new Leadership and Organizational Behavior MBA required course.
Shimpei, Takahashi,Play this game to come up with original ideas,Toy designer,http//www.allamericanspeakers.com/speakers/Shimpei-Takahashi/394020,,Shimpei Takahashi has developed many toys for Bandai, including the popular Mugen Puchi Puchi, a game that exploits the universal love of popping bubble wrap. The toy received the Grand Prize Trendy Toy Award from the Japan Toy Association.,In 2005, Takahashi invented a board game called Simpei, while he also works in the digital realm, having designed the social gaming app, Onedari Wanko (Fawning Puppy).
Ismael, Nazario,What I learned as a kid in jail,Prison reform advocate,fortunesociety.org,,,
Marc, Kushner,Why the buildings of the future will be shaped by ... you,Architect,architizer.com,,“[Marc’s aim] is to push his insular profession toward the mainstream and inspire more people, not just Fortune 500 executives, to seek out its services.” — New York Times, November 4, 2010,
Sangu, Delle,In praise of macro — yes, macro — finance in Africa,Investor,www.sdelle.com,,Traditional aid and microfinance platforms have good intentions, says Ghanaian investor Sangu Delle, but they largely haven’t worked. This TED Fellow proposes a different way investing in pan-African entrepreneurial titans. Through Golden Palm Investments , the investment company he founded, Delle focuses on supporting smart businesses in Africa with big ambitions. GPI focuses on high growth industries and has funded promising startups like SOLO Mobile in Nigeria, mPharma in Ghana and Stawi Foods in Kenya. Because instead of lending small amounts to 500 farmers who’ll each make a small percentage more as a result, he’d rather lend a huge amount to one world class company with the ability to employ 500 people — and perhaps many more. Africa has a market of one billion people and, with more high-impact businesses, could quickly outpace other emerging economies, he says.,Sangu is the author of the upcoming book, Seeding Growth Africa’s Youngest Entrepreneurs . He is also the co- founder of cleanacwa , a non-profit in Ghana that supports water and sanitation as basic human rights, and that is currently serving about 120 villages. In 2014, Delle was named one of Forbes magazine's “30 Most Promising Young Entrepreneurs in Africa.”
Ilona, Szabó de Carvalho,4 lessons I learned from taking a stand against drugs and gun violence,Policy reformer,en.igarape.org.br,,“Calling the global war on drugs a costly failure, a group of high-profile world leaders is urging the Obama administration and other governments to end ‘the criminalization, marginalization and stigmatization of people who use drugs but do no harm to others.’” — LA Times [on the GCDP, June 1, 2011],
Andy, Yen,Think your email's private? Think again,Secure email developer,www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~andyyen/,,“It's clear that we are under observation by both governments and corporations, and we can't just sit on the sidelines -- privacy is too important for democracy. We are computer scientists, we can do something, so we decided to try.” — Andy Yen,
Harry, Baker,A love poem for lonely prime numbers,Poet,harrybaker.co,,Harry Baker has always loved words. He’s been blessed enough to travel round the world with them, winning the Poetry Slam World Cup in 2012 and currently using a maths degree as an excuse to live in Germany and find heaps more new words to play with. With two 5-star Edinburgh Fringe festival shows under his belt, his latest milestone is his 2014 book, The Sunshine Kid .,
Topher, White,What can save the rainforest? Your used cell phone,Conservation technologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/topher_white,,In 2012, Topher White founded Rainforest Connection, a startup which converts recycled cell-phones into solar-powered listening devices to monitor and protect remote areas of the rainforest. Now an established NGO, Rainforest Connection has helped stop illegal logging and poaching operations in Sumatra, and the system is being expanded to three more rainforest reserves in Indonesia, the Amazon and Africa.,With a background in physics and engineering, White worked as web chief of ITER and co-founded Enthuse, a sports engagement and mobile rewards platform. For Rainforest Connection, he’s fashioned a simple device made of discarded cell phones and solar panels that detects and sends alerts when it picks up the sound of chainsaws in protected rainforests, allowing for intervention in real time.
Jon, Gosier,The problem with trickle-down techonomics,Investor, data scientist, entrepreneur,gosier.org,,Jon Gosier is an investor and data scientist. He's a partner at Third Cohort Capital , an early-stage tech startup investment fund. Prior to joining Third Cohort, he was the founder of Appfrica , which invests in Africa’s technology economy, D8A Group , a company that makes data science solutions, and Market Atlas , which is like the Bloomberg terminal for emerging market countries. In 2015, Gosier was listed by TIME Magazine as one of “ 12 New Faces of Black Leadership ”, as well as “Most Influential Blacks in Technology” by Business Inside r in 2013 and 2014 and among the 20 Angels Worth Knowing by Black Enterprise Magazine.,Gosier is a Fellow and Senior Fellow at TED from 2009 to 2012 and a first-year participant at THNK, the Amsterdam School for Creative Leadership in the Netherlands. He's won the Knight News Challenge twice, once in 2011 for work in analysis at Ushahidi and again in 2012 for work creating ways of moving data between mobile phones without a central mobile network.
Helder, Guimarães,A magical search for a coincidence,Magician,WhoIsHelder.com,,Helder Guimarães slips and slides cards on a table, wowing you with invisible technique, unorthodox psychology and fresh humor. As a close-up magician, he's won international awards for his elegantly thought-through performances, which merge a nuanced stagecraft with good old how-does-he-do-it sleight of hand. He is the world's youngest-ever World Champion of Card Magic. He reflects on his craft in the enigmatic out-of-print book, Reflections . His appearances at LA's Magic Castle led him to be awarded the title of Parlour Magician of The Year, in 2011 and 2012, recognition that drew hours-long queues as audiences (and fellow magicians) flocked to the simple and astonishing act. Also, in 2012, he co-created a show called Nothing to Hide , with Derek DelGaudio, which opened at the Geffen Playhouse, directed by magic superfan Neil Patrick Harris. In 2013, the show was taken to Off-Broadway where it stayed for a very successful held-over run of 110 performances.,
Ben, Wellington,How we found the worst place to park in New York City — using big data,Data scientist,www.cs.nyu.edu/wellingt/,,Ben Wellington runs the I Quant NY blog, in which he crunches city-released data to find out what's really going on in the Big Apple. To date he has tackled topics such as measles outbreaks in New York City schools, analyzed how companies like Airbnb are really doing in NYC, and asked questions such as  does gentrification cause a reduction in laundromats?  (Answer inconclusive.),Ben is a visiting assistant professor in the City & Regional Planning program at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, his day job involves working as a quantitative analyst at the investment management firm, Two Sigma. A budding comedian and performer, he also teaches team building workshops through Cherub Improv , a non-profit that uses improv comedy for social good.
Romina, Libster,The power of herd immunity,Medical researcher,www.allamericanspeakers.com ,,Dr. Romina Libster is a staff scientist and assistant investigator at the National Scientific and Technical Research Council, in Buenos Aires, Argentina. She received her Doctor of Medicine, with High Honors from the University Of Buenos Aires School Of Medicine in 2004. She then completed her pediatric internship and residency at the “Pedro de Elizalde” Children’s Hospital in Buenos Aires, Argentina from 2004-2008. Upon completion of this training she began her Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship at the Fundación INFANT in Buenos Aires under the tutelage of a renowned investigator, Dr. Fernando P. Polack. Shortly after assuming her fellowship position, she began the Master in Clinical Effectiveness Program in Buenos Aires. She conducted a series of complex and innovative studies on respiratory viruses, with a special focus on influenza. Romina was invited by Dr. Kathryn M. Edwards to join the Vanderbilt Vaccine Research Program team at Vanderbilt University in 2009 where she is leading a large clinical trial to determine the safety and immunogenicity of sequential rotavirus vaccine schedules. In 2013, Dr. Libster returned to her home country through a repatriation program from Fundación INFANT where she joined the faculty at the institution.,
Khalida, Brohi,How I work to protect women from honor killings,Women’s rights activist and entrepreneur,sughar.org,,“Khalida has an ability to see the miracle in everything.” — Ashoka India, 2011,
Rob, Knight,How our microbes make us who we are,Microbial ecologist,biomedsci.ucsd.edu,,“Faeces, lizards, keyboards, faces -- Rob Knight likes to sequence the microbes on anything and everything. Next, he plans to sequence Earth.” — Nature, July 11, 2012,
James, A. White Sr.,The little problem I had renting a house,Consultant,www.createabw.com/james-white/,,James A. White Sr. is an executive coach and management consultant. The owner and president of Performance Consulting Services in Columbus, Ohio, he helps individuals, groups and organizations recognize their potential, fine-tune their strategic messages and present them effectively.,James is dedicated to sharing his energy, passion and insight into how to overcome life’s obstacles with others. As a dyslexic student in the inner city, he dropped out of high school — and after getting his G.E.D. jumpstarted his career by joining the U.S. Air Force. He went on to positions at Xerox, Wang Laboratories and Digital Equipment Corporation and has spent the past 25 as a consultant and educator. He also aims to share his experiences of racism in order to stress the message that all races, genders and backgrounds must come together to challenge the status quo.
Angelo, Vermeulen,How to go to space, without having to go to space,Space researcher, biologist, artist,angelovermeulen.net,,If you're looking for someone who embodies multidisciplinary, look no further than TED Senior Fellow Angelo Vermeulen, a space systems researcher, biologist, artist and community organizer. The one common thread in all his work the desire to understand the relationship between nature and technology, to learn from what's happened in the past in order to build a promising future for us all.,Having received his PhD in Biology from the University of Leuven in Belgium, Angelo nonetheless eschewed a life in the lab to apply a creative lens to everything he does. To date, that includes working on independent projects around the world, including Biomodd, a worldwide series of interactive art installations in which technology and nature coexist. Throughout 2011, he was a member of the European Space Agency Topical Team Arts & Science (ETTAS), while in 2013 he was crew commander of the NASA-funded HI-SEAS Mars mission simulation in Hawaii. For this project, he and a crew of six astronauts lived for four months in a dome, all in the name of studying the effects of longterm isolation among a small crew.
Laura, Boushnak,For these women, reading is a daring act,Photographer,LauraBoushnak.com,,Laura Boushnak is a Kuwaiti-born Palestinian photographer whose work focuses on women, literacy and education reform in the Arab world. For her ongoing series I Read, I Write, she photographed girls and women changing their lives with education in Egypt, Yemen, Kuwait, Jordan and Tunisia. Boushnak is a TED Fellow and the co-founder of the RAWIYA collective , a photography cooperative of female photographers from the Middle East.,
Nadine, Burke Harris,How childhood trauma affects health across a lifetime,Pediatrician,www.centerforyouthwellness.org/,,Pediatrician Nadine Burke Harris noticed a disturbing trend as she treated children in an underserved neighborhood in San Francisco that many of the kids who came to see her had experienced childhood trauma. She began studying how childhood exposure to adverse events affects brain development, as well as a person’s health as an adult.,Understanding this powerful correlation, Burke Harris became the founder and CEO of the Center for Youth Wellness , an initiative at the California Pacific Medical Center Bayview Child Health Center that seeks to create a clinical model that recognizes and effectively treats toxic stress in children. Her work pushes the health establishment to reexamine its relationship to social risk factors, and advocates for medical interventions to counteract the damaging impact of stress. Her goal to change the standard of pediatric practice, across demographics.
Guy, Winch,Why we all need to practice emotional first aid,Psychologist, author,guywinch.com,,,
Hannah, Fry,The mathematics of love,Complexity theorist,www.hannahfry.co.uk/,,Hannah Fry completed her PhD in fluid dynamics in early 2011 with an emphasis on how liquid droplets move. Then, after working as an aerodynamicist in the motorsport industry, she began work on an interdisciplinary project in complexity sciences at University College London. Hannah’s current research focusses on discovering new connections between mathematically described systems and human interaction at the largest scale.,
Kenneth, Shinozuka,My simple invention, designed to keep my grandfather safe,Smart product inventor,https//www.ted.com/speakers/kenneth_shinozuka,,When he was six years old, a family friend of Kenneth Shinozuka fell down in the bathroom. The friend was ok -- but the incident inspired him to design a motion detection system that could be embedded in bathroom tiles. He never actually made one in real life (remember, he was only six) ... but he was hooked on both the promise of invention and the potential of technology.,Since then, Shinozuka has designed smart devices for his grandfather, who has Alzheimer's disease. One invention that caught the eye of both the media and awards programs such as the Google Science Fair a pair of smart socks, designed to send an alert to a caregiver if a patient gets out of bed. In 2014, he won the $50,000 Scientific American Science in Action Award, while he was also a 2014 Davidson Fellow.
Ricardo, Semler,How to run a company with (almost) no rules,Organizational changemaker,www.semco.com.br/en/,,“Business plans are just wishful thinking. Have you ever seen one that says, 'I’m going to go up 5% and then down -14%'? Because that's what happens in practice.” —,
Jaap, de Roode,How butterflies self-medicate,Biologist,www.biology.emory.edu/research/deRoode/,,At his lab at Emory University, Jaap de Roode and his team study parasites and their hosts. Some of the questions that intrigue them If a parasite depends on its host's survival for its own well-being, why do so many of them cause harm? In what ways are hosts able to self-medicate in order to make themselves less desirable to parasites? And are the abilities to harm hosts — and the ability of hosts to self-medicate — favored by natural selection?,The De Roode Lab focuses on the monarch butterfly and its parasites. The team has made a fascinating discovery that female butterflies infected by a parasite choose to lay their eggs on a specific variety of milkweed that helps their offspring avoid getting sick. De Roode hopes that this insight could lead to new approaches in medications for human beings in the future.
Brian, Dettmer,Old books reborn as art,,briandettmer.com,,,
Tom, Wujec,Got a wicked problem? First, tell me how you make toast,Designer,tomwujec.com,,Tom Wujec is a Fellow at Autodesk, the makers of design software for engineers, filmmakers, designers. At Autodesk, he has worked on software including SketchBook Pro, PortfolioWall and Maya (which won an Academy Award for its contribution to the film industry). As a Fellow, he helps companies work in the emerging field of business visualization, the art of using images, sketches and infographics to help teams solve complex problems as a group.,He's the author of several books, including Five-Star Mind Games and Puzzles to Stimulate Your Creativity and Imagination .
Ben, Ambridge,10 myths about psychology, debunked,Psychologist,benambridge.com,,Ben Ambridge is a senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Liverpool, where he researches children’s language development. He is the author of Psy-Q , which introduces readers to some of the major findings in psychology via interactive puzzles, games, quizzes and tests. He also writes great newsy stories connecting psychology to current events. His article  Why Can't We Talk to the Animals?  was shortlisted for the 2012 Guardian-Wellcome Science Writing Prize. Psy-Q is his first book for a general audience.,
Bruce, Aylward,Humanity vs. Ebola. How we could win a terrifying war,Epidemiologist,PolioEradication.com,,A Canadian physician and epidemiologist who has authored some 100 peer-reviewed articles and chapters, Bruce Aylward is an expert on infectious diseases. He joined the World Health Organization in 1992 and worked in the field for seven years on national immunization programs for measles, tetanus and hepatitis in the Middle East, Africa and Asia.,Aylward has overseen and managed the scale-up of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative since 1998, during which time the program expanded to operate in every country of the world, the annual global budget increased to $700 million a year, polio-funded staff deployed by WHO grew to over 3,500 people worldwide, and new monovalent oral poliovirus vaccines were developed for the programme. In 2014, only three countries remained polio-endemic.
Zeynep, Tufekci,Online social change easy to organize, hard to win,Techno-sociologist,technosociology.org,,We've never had so many ways to express ourselves to the world, to break news, blast opinions, build communities. Zeynep Tufekci studies how online voices and online crowds -- using Facebook, Twitter and other social tools -- interact with traditional power. Her analysis of the Gezi Park demonstrations in her native Turkey broke new ground, and she's quickly become a must-follow on Medium for her sharp insights into news and events that are, more and more, influenced by spontaneous online social reaction.,An assistant professor at the School of Information and Library Science (SILS) at University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, she's a faculty associate at Harvard's Berkman Center and the co-editor of Inequity in the Technopolis , a 10-year longitudinal study of tech access in Austin, Texas.
Bassam, Tariq,The beauty and diversity of Muslim life,Creative spirit,bassamtariq.net,,Our purpose is simple we are here to change the world’s relationship to their food. TED Fellow Bassam Tariq does not have small dreams, every project he undertakes is a big plan to make real change. Hence the butcher's shop he helped to open in Manhattan's East Village is organic, halal, and specifically designed to encourage healthier eating habits and happier families.,In 2011, Bassam and his friend Aman Ali resolved to spend each night of Ramadan in a different mosque in 30 states around the United States -- and write about the experience. The result, 30 Mosques in 30 States , was a celebration of the stunning diversity of the Muslim experience in America, and a celebration of individual stories worth telling. Similarly, his documentary, These Birds Walk, is a portrayal of real life for street kids in Karachi, Pakistan.
Khadija, Gbla,My mother’s strange definition of empowerment,Cross-cultural consultant,KhadijaGbla.com.au,,Khadija Gbla was just 3-years-old when the war broke out in her country, Sierra Leone. While her family initially escaped to Gambia, 10 years later they attained refugee status and resettled in Adelaide, Australia. The transition was complex—Khadija experienced racism, illness and depression—but threw herself into her education. She discovered that she had a unique talent the ability to translate across two very different cultures.,Khadija first used this talent as a peer educator for South Australia’s Women’s Heath Statewide program, where she talked to health professionals about female genital mutilation — helping them understand what it is, where it happens, and the cultural beliefs that surround it. She’s since used her multicultural voice to offer advice on policy through South Australian Government Minister’s Youth Council, to organize camps and activities for newly-arrived refugees and to raise awareness about both sexual and mental health issues among her peers. She has represented Australia in the international arena at the Harvard National Model United Nations, Commonwealth Youth Forum and Australian and Africa Dialogue, and speaks regularly at a wide variety of events to make sure that her perspective is heard.
Severine, Autesserre,To solve mass violence, look to locals,Peace and conflict researcher,severineautesserre.com,,“Autesserre offers a powerful analysis that contributes to an understanding of the significance of culture in peacekeeping operations, from both an institutional and a grassroots perspective.” — Steven Schouten, International Affairs, 2011,
Miguel, Nicolelis,Brain-to-brain communication has arrived. How we did it,Neuroscientist,nicolelislab.net,,At the Nicolelis Laboratory at Duke University, Miguel Nicolelis is best known for pioneering studies in neuronal population coding, Brain Machine Interfaces (BMI) and neuroprosthetics in human patients and non-human primates.His lab's work was seen, famously though a bit too briefly, when a brain-controlled exoskeleton from his lab helped Juliano Pinto, a paraplegic man, kick the first ball at the 2014 World Cup.,But his lab is thinking even bigger. They've developed an integrative approach to studying neurological disorders, including Parkinsons disease and epilepsy. The approach, they hope, will allow the integration of molecular, cellular, systems and behavioral data in the same animal, producing a more complete understanding of the nature of the neurophysiological alterations associated with these disorders. He's the author of the books Beyond Boundaries and The Relativistic Brain .
Morgana, Bailey,The danger of hiding who you are,Human resources professional,https//www.ted.com/speakers/morgana_bailey,,“I am in human resources, a profession that works to welcome, connect and encourage the development of employees,” says Morgana Bailey. At State Street, she directs the Global Human Resources data management team, which maintains data records for the company’s approximately 29,000 employees. Morgana collaborates with people across State Street as corporate policies, regulatory requirements and related employee data requirements continually evolve. Her career experiences have confirmed that the only constant is change, and one’s ability — or inability — to adapt can generate profound long-term outcomes.,At TED@StateStreet, Morgana Bailey revealed a part of herself that she had kept supressed for 16 years. She hopes that her openness will inspire others to stop hiding, and be open about who they are in both their personal and professional lives.
Joe, Madiath,Better toilets, better life,Social entrepreneur,gramvikas.org,,When he was 12, Joe Madiath unionized young workers to fight for better work conditions. They were employed by... his own father. He was therefore sent away to a boarding school. After his studies, travels across India, and participating in relief work afer a devastating cyclone, in 1979 he founded Gram Vikas. The name translates to village development in both Hindi and Oriya, the language of the state of Orissa, where the organization is primarily active.,The bulk of Gram Vikas ' efforts are on water and sanitation. The organization's approach is based on partnership with villagers and gender equity. In order to benefit from Gram Vikas' support to install water and sanitation systems, the entire village community needs to commit to participate in the planning, construction and maintenance, and all villagers, regardless of social, economic or caste status, will have access to the same facilities. This requirement of 100 percent participation is difficult, Madiath acknowledges, but it leads to socially equitable and long-term solutions. Gram Vikas has already reached over 1,200 communities and over 400,000 people.
Sarah, Bergbreiter,Why I make robots the size of a grain of rice,Microroboticist,https//www.isr.umd.edu/faculty/bergbreiter,,Sarah Bergbreiter runs the Maryland Microrobotics Laboratory at the University of Maryland, where she develops innovative technologies that could advance medicine, consumer electronics and other sciences. She joined the university in 2008 as an assistant professor of mechanical engineering.,Having received her B.S.E degree in electrical engineering from Princeton, she worked on her M.S. and Ph.D. at Berkeley, which is where she focused on microrobotics. She has received multiple awards for her work, including the DARPA Young Faculty Award in 2008 and the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists in 2013.
Matthieu, Ricard,How to let altruism be your guide,Monk, author, photographer,www.matthieuricard.org/en/,,After training in biochemistry at the Institute Pasteur, Matthieu Ricard left science behind to move to the Himalayas and become a Buddhist monk -- and to pursue happiness, both at a basic human level and as a subject of inquiry . Achieving happiness, he has come to believe, requires the same kind of effort and mind training that any other serious pursuit involves. His deep and scientifically tinged reflections on happiness and Buddhism have turned into several books, including The Quantum and the Lotus A Journey to the Frontiers Where Science and Buddhism Meet . At the same time, he also makes sensitive and jaw-droppingly gorgeous photographs of his beloved Tibet and the spiritual hermitage where he lives and works on humanitarian projects . His latest book on happiness is Happiness A Guide to Developing Life's Most Important Skill , his latest book of photographs is Tibet An Inner Journey .,“Matthieu Ricard, French translator and right-hand man for the Dalai Lama, has been the subject of intensive clinical tests at the University of Wisconsin, as a result of which he is frequently described as the happiest man in the world.” — Robert Chalmers, The Independent
Cristina, Domenech,Poetry that frees the soul,Poet and educator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/cristina_domenech,,,
Robert, Muggah,How to protect fast-growing cities from failing,Megacities expert,theglobalobservatory.org/by/robert-muggah/,,“Megacities are going to influence norms, processes and revolutionize governance at a scale hitherto unimagined.” — ISN, 2013,
Robert, Swan,Let's save the last pristine continent,Polar explorer,2041foundation.org,,When Robert Swan, OBE, set foot on the North Pole in 1989, he entered the history books as the first person to walk to both poles. But the South Pole, which he had reached in 1984, inspired his life's work -- to preserve Antarctica in the face of climate change. Swan's organization 2041 (named for the date when the world’s moratoriums on mining and drilling in Antarctica will expire) leads expeditions of the world's most influential people to the continent in hopes that it will ignite their passion for preservation. The hope to affect real and lasting environmental policy changes.,
Navi, Radjou,Creative problem-solving in the face of extreme limits,Innovation strategist,naviradjou.com,,“[Radjou and his co-authors] argue convincingly that frugal innovation will change rich countries, too.” — The Economist, 2012,
Tasso, Azevedo,Hopeful lessons from the battle to save rainforests,Forester and sustainability activist,tassoazevedo.blogspot.com,,Tasso Azevedo founded the Brazilian non-governmental organization Imaflora in 1995 to create alternatives to deforestation. It became the leading environmental certification institution in Brazil. In 2003 he was appointed as the first director general of Brazil's National Forest Service.,In that job, by showing how the health of the Amazon rainforest is directly connected to his country’s economic stability and energy security, he led the implementation of an innovative framework of incentives for sustainable forestry that contributed to reduce the ate of deforestation in the Amazon by 75 percent -- and Brazil's greenhouse gas emissions by one-third. Today, Azevedo is focused on addressing climate change globally.
Fredy, Peccerelli,A forensic anthropologist who brings closure for the disappeared,Forensic anthropologist,https//www.ted.com/...more_tolerance_we_need_more_tourism/transcri...,,In Guatemala’s brutal civil war, 200,000 civilians were killed — and more than 40,000 of them were never found. They are referred to as the “disappeared,” and since the end of the conflict, their bodies have been found in unmarked mass graves with very little information to identify them.,Fredy Peccerelli has a personal connection to this tragic story. He was born in Guatemala, but when his father received threats from a death squad, his family left for the United States. It was 1980 and Peccerelli was 9. He quickly adapted to life in Brooklyn, New York. But in 1994, while a college student, he heard a presentation on the emerging field of forensic anthropology. The speakers talked about exhuming bodies from mass graves in Guatemala, and Peccerelli was fascinated. He wanted to help.
Aziz, Abu Sarah,For more tolerance, we need more ... tourism?,Entrepreneur + educator,https//azizabusarah.wordpress.com/,,When Aziz Abu Sarah was a boy, his older brother was arrested on charges of throwing stones. He was taken to prison and beaten — and died of his injuries. Sarah grew up angry, bitter and wanting revenge. But when later in life he met, for the first time, Jews who were not soldiers, Sarah had an epiphany Not only did they share his love of small things, namely country music, but coming face to face with the “enemy” compelled him to find ways to overcome hatred, anger and fear.,Sarah founded MEJDI Tours to send tourists to Jerusalem with two guides, one Jewish and one Palestinian, each offering a different history and narrative of the city. Sarah tells success stories of tourists from the US visiting a Palestinian refugee camp and listening to joint Arab and Jewish bands play music, and of a Muslim family from the UK sharing Sabbath dinner with a Jewish family and realizing that 100 years ago, their people came from the same town in Northern Africa. MEJDI is expanding its service to Iran, Turkey, Ireland and other regions suffering from cultural conflict. If more of the world’s 1 billion tourists were to engage with real people living real lives, argues Sarah, it would be a powerful force for shattering sterotypes and promoting understanding, friendship and peace.
Daniele, Quercia,Happy maps,Map researcher,labs.yahoo.com,,,
Asha, de Vos,Why you should care about whale poo,Protector of whales,ashadevos.com,,“The unique Sri Lankan blue whales live in busy shipping waters. Marine biologist Asha de Vos is using mathematical models to put them out of harm's way.” — New Scientist,
Michael, Rubinstein,See invisible motion, hear silent sounds,Research scientist, Google,www.mrubinsteinlaw.com/,,Michael Rubinstein zooms in on what we can't see and mangnifies it by thirty or a hundred times. His motion microscope, developed at MIT with Microsoft and Quanta Research, picks up on subtle motion and color changes in videos and blows them up for the naked eye to see. The result fun, cool, creepy videos .,Rubinstein is a research scientist at a new Cambridge-based Google lab for computer vision research. He has a PhD in computer science and electrical engineering from MIT.
Erin, McKean,Go ahead, make up new words!,Dictionary editor,erinmckean.com/,,Erin McKean's job as a lexicographer involves living in a constant state of research. She searches high and low -- from books to blogs, newspapers to cocktail parties -- for new words, new meanings for old words, or signs that old words have fallen out of use. In June of this year, she involved us all in the search by launching Wordnik , an online dictionary that houses all the traditionally accepted words and definitions, but also asks users to contribute new words and new uses for old words. Wordnik pulls real-time examples of word usage from Twitter, image representations from Flickr along with many more non-traditional, and highly useful, features.,Before Wordnik, McKean was one of the youngest editors of the New Oxford American Dictionary . She continues to serve as the editor of the language quarterly Verbatim (language and linguistics for the layperson since 1974) and is the author of multiple books, including That's Amore and the entire Weird and Wonderful Words series. All that, and she maintains multiple blogs, too McKean is the keen observationalist behind A Dress a Day and Dictionary Evangelist . Is there anything she can't do? Surprisingly, she is notoriously bad at Scrabble.
Mundano,Mundano,Pimp my ... trash cart?,Graffiti artist + activist,PimpMyCarroca.com,,Mundano is a Brazilian street artist and activist whose work makes people stop and think about the issues swirling around them everyday. In 2007, he began using his graffiti skills to paint carroças, the wooden and metal carts used by the trash collectors throughout Brazil who haul off junk and recyclables. He painted 200 carroças and in the process made these invisible superheroes visible—not only in the streets, but also in the media. The effort led to  Pimp My Carroça , which made this initiative do-it-yourself, crowdfunded and global. It has brought in 170 trash collectors in cities around the world, teaming them up with 200 street artists and 800 volunteers. It is quickly becoming a movement.,At home in Brazil, Mundano works on other projects too. Since 2008, he has used the posters and banners that plaster Brazilian cities during elections to create thought-provoking art. For the election in 2014, he turned these enormous plastic banners into a giant voting booth filled with waste in a square in Rio de Janeiro. I use these ads to get people to reflect on the corrupted political system. On all the false promises, and all the awful waste, he explains.
Bruno, Torturra,Got a smartphone? Start broadcasting,Livestreaming activist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/bruno_torturra,,“With cellphone cameras and 3G networks, Media Ninja was in the trenches of the demonstrations, producing guerrilla journalism that made news even abroad.” — Alexandre Matias, OEsquema (Translated from Portuguese),
Carol, Dweck,The power of believing that you can improve,Psychologist,mindsetonline.com,,As Carol Dweck describes it My work bridges developmental psychology, social psychology, and personality psychology, and examines the self-conceptions (or mindsets) people use to structure the self and guide their behavior. My research looks at the origins of these mindsets, their role in motivation and self-regulation, and their impact on achievement and interpersonal processes.,Dweck is a professor at Stanford and the author of Mindset , a classic work on motivation and growth mindset. Her work is influential among educators and increasingly among business leaders as well.
Jeremy, Howard,The wonderful and terrifying implications of computers that can learn,Data scientist,enlitic.com,,Jeremy Howard is the CEO of Enlitic , an advanced machine learning company in San Francisco. Previously, he was the president and chief scientist at Kaggle , a community and competition platform of over 200,000 data scientists. Howard is a faculty member at Singularity University , where he teaches data science. He is also a Young Global Leader with the World Economic Forum, and spoke at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2014 on  Jobs for the Machines .,Howard advised Khosla Ventures as their Data Strategist, identifying opportunities for investing in data-driven startups and mentoring portfolio companies to build data-driven businesses. He was the founding CEO of two successful Australian startups, FastMail and Optimal Decisions Group.
Vern,Myers,How to overcome our biases? Walk boldly toward them,Diversity advocate,www.vernamyersconsulting.com/,,Vern? Myers is a diversity consultant and self-described recovering lawyer with a degree from Harvard Law. She leads the Vern? Myers Consulting Group , an organization that has helped break down barriers of race, gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation in thousand-member workplaces. She is also the author of Moving Diversity Forward How to Go from Well-Meaning to Well-Doing .,Myers encourages us to recognize our own biases in order to actively combat them, emphasizing a low guilt, high responsibility philosophy. In her work she points to her own inner biases, because, as she says, People relax when they know the diversity lady has her own issues.
Dave, Troy,Social maps that reveal a city's intersections — and separations,Technologist,davetroy.com,,Dave Troy is a serial entrepreneur and community activist in Baltimore, Maryland. He is CEO and product architect at 410 Labs, maker of the popular e-mail management tool Mailstrom.co . He has been acknowledged by the founding team at Twitter as the first developer to utilize the Twitter API, with his project “Twittervision,” which was featured in the 2008 MoMA exhibition “Design and the Elastic Mind.” His crowdsourced project Peoplemaps.org uses social network data to map cities. He is also organizer of TEDxMidAtlantic and is passionate about data, cities, and entrepreneurship.,Read his post,  The Math Behind Peoplemaps .
Catherine, Crump,The small and surprisingly dangerous detail the police track about you,Attorney + privacy advocate,https//www.ted.com/speakers/catherine_crump,,Catherine Crump is a civil liberties lawyer whose work focuses on combating government surveillance and protecting the free speech rights of political protesters. She has filed cases challenging the NSA and the Department of Homeland Security. Crump is an assistant professor at Berkeley Law School, previously she was an attorney for ACLU for nine years.,In her writing for the ACLU, Crump warns against the dangers of national mass surveillance technology, which can all too easily end up as tools for local police forces. She writes, Not only our country as a whole, but also the police, will be better off in the long run if we have an open debate about what today’s technology can do, versus what it should do.
Thomas, Hellum,The world's most boring television ... and why it's hilariously addictive,Slow television advocate,mediaconventionberlin.com/en/thomas-hellum,,Thomas Hellum has worked at NRK Hordaland since 1992. The former lighting designer moved into photography and then began work as a producer, specializing in documentaries. In 2009, he became one of the driving forces behind the Slow TV movement, filming and broadcasting apparently boring events as they happen and turning them into genuinely thrilling television drama.,In 2008, Hellum won the Grand Prix Golden Prague at the International Television Festival in Prague for the documentary Ballad for Edvard Grieg , which tracked the composer's travels through Europe. He also won the Rose d'Or Award for The Sound of Ole Bull at the Rose d'Or Festival in Lucerne in 2012. His personal motto Life is best when it's a bit strange.
Anastasia, Taylor-Lind,Fighters and mourners of the Ukrainian revolution,Documentary photographer,AnastasiaTaylorLind.com,,,
Jose, Miguel Sokoloff,How Christmas lights helped guerrillas put down their guns,Anti-guerrilla creative,Lowe-SSP3.com,,“Not many ad agency briefs aim to tackle something as important as the demobilisation of a guerrilla army.” — Creative Review,
Aakash, Odedra,A dance in a hurricane of paper, wind and light,Choreographer,aakashodedra.co.uk,,“He had that sense of ecstasy, which reaches upward spiritually, but also goes horizontally to the audience.” — The Wall Street Journal,
Barbara, Natterson-Horowitz,What veterinarians know that physicians don't,Cardiologist,www.amazon.com/Barbara-Natterson-Horowitz/e/B007IVG6RA,,,
Rainer, Strack,The workforce crisis of 2030 — and how to start solving it now,Human resources expert,bcg.com,,,
Ben, Saunders,To the South Pole and back — the hardest 105 days of my life,Arctic explorer,bensaunders.com,,Although most of the planet's surface was mapped long ago, there's still a place for explorers in the modern world. And Ben Saunders' stories of arctic exploration -- as impressive for their technical ingenuity as their derring-do -- are decidedly modern. In 2004, at age 26, he skied solo to the North Pole, updating his blog each day of the trip. Humble and self-effacing, Saunders is an explorer of limits, whether it's how far a human can be pushed physically and psychologically, or how technology works hundreds of miles from civilization. His message is one of inspiration, empowerment and boundless potential. He urges audiences to consider carefully how to spend the “tiny amount of time we each have on this planet.” Saunders is also a powerful advocate for the natural world. He's seen first-hand the effects of climate change, and his expeditions are raising awareness for sustainable solutions.,Being the youngest person to ski solo to the North Pole did not satiate Saunders' urge to explore and push the boundaries. In 2008, he attempted to break the speed record for a solo walk to the North Pole, however, his journey was ended abruptly both then and again in 2010 due to equipment failure. From October 2013 to February 2014, he led a two-man team to retrace Captain Robert Falcon Scott’s ill-fated 1,800-mile expedition to the South Pole on foot. He calls this journey the hardest 105 days of his life.
Oren, Yakobovich,Hidden cameras that film injustice in the world’s most dangerous places,Human-rights activist,videreonline.org,,Using recording technology -- some of it so secret you haven’t heard of it yet -- Videre connects with activists deep within the most repressive regimes to video-document human-rights abuses and expose them to worldwide scrutiny. Yakobovich believes that only action by the oppressed communities themselves will temper the worst excesses of their authoritarian governments.,Videre's name comes from the Latin expression videre est credere -- to see is to believe. Previously, Yakobovich (together with Israeli watchdog group B’Tselem) initiated the camera documentation project, which delivered hundreds of cameras to Palestinians to expose the daily realities of life in the West Bank.
Pico, Iyer,The art of stillness,Global author,picoiyerjourneys.com/index.php/about/,,Acclaimed travel writer Pico Iyer began his career documenting a neglected aspect of travel -- the sometimes surreal disconnect between local tradition and imported global pop culture. Since then, he has written ten books , exploring also the cultural consequences of isolation, whether writing about the exiled spiritual leaders of Tibet or the embargoed society of Cuba.,Iyer’s latest focus is on yet another overlooked aspect of travel how can it help us regain our sense of stillness and focus in a world where our devices and digital networks increasing distract us? As he says Almost everybody I know has this sense of overdosing on information and getting dizzy living at post-human speeds. Nearly everybody I know does something to try to remove herself to clear her head and to have enough time and space to think. ... All of us instinctively feel that something inside us is crying out for more spaciousness and stillness to offset the exhilarations of this movement and the fun and diversion of the modern world.
Emily, Balcetis,Why some people find exercise harder than others,Psychologist,balcetis.socialpsychology.org/,,The world around us often seems insurmountable, with all the cards stacked against us -- but as social psychologist Emily Balcetis seeks to show, it doesn't have to be that way. Through her research at New York University she explores how small differences in perception, whether conscious or nonconscious, can have potentially major consequences. For example, in a series of studies conducted in 2009 Balcetis helped show that people who saw Barack Obama as lighter skinned tended to report voting for him in the 2008 presidential election -- and vice versa.,Her current work focuses on how video evidence can bias jury members differently and how our vision can work against us when it comes to effective exercise. Balcetis' goal is to show that through our awareness of these biases, we can also overcome them, for an ever so slightly less daunting world.
Mark, Plotkin,What the people of the Amazon know that you don’t,Amazonian ethnobotanist,AmazonTeam.org,,Mark Plotkin is an ethnobotanist, studying the traditional uses for plants in Central and South America forests. He works closely with shamans, community leaders who practice traditional healing techniques using plants and animals, learned over uncounted generations. But when forests are disrupted (by illegal logging, for instance), that knowledge risks being lost. Plotkin's work helps to collect and share shamanic learning, with a twofold goal to preserve the rainforest by showing its value as a source of yet-to-be-discovered pharmaceuticals. Plotkin pioneered his research working with the Trio Indians of southern Suriname, and has also worked with elder shamans from Mexico, Panama, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Colombia and Brazil. He's the author of the best-selling book Tales of a Shaman's Apprentice . With his wife, Liliana Madrigal, he co-founded the Amazon Conservation Team, a group that helps indigenous people purchase and protect their sacred sites.,
Rosie, King,How autism freed me to be myself,Storytelling activist,tedmed.com,,,
Joe, Landolina,This gel can make you stop bleeding instantly,medical inventor,www.suneris.co/about/,,,
Nancy, Frates,Meet the mom who started the Ice Bucket Challenge,Mother + ALS Advocate,PeteFrates.com,,When Nancy Frates’ son was diagnosed with ALS in 2012, she was confused. Pete was a 27-year-old athlete and the only people she’d ever known with this disease were elderly already. Ever since that life-changing moment, she and her family have found their sense of purpose in working tirelessly to raise awareness about ALS and to stimulate funding for research. Because it’s been 75 years since Lou Gehrig delivered his famed farewell speech, and no treatment or cure has been found. This, says Nancy Frates, is unacceptable.,This July, Pete Frates inspired the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge, which quickly became a viral fundraising phenomenon. The challenge inspired people across the United States and world to dump a bucket of ice on their head and pass the challenge on to three friends. In all, The ALS Association projects that the challenge will have raised $160 million for research by the end of 2014.
Will, Marshall,Tiny satellites show us the Earth as it changes in near-real-time,Space scientist,planet-labs.com,,In his Twitter bio, William Marshall calls himself a quantum physicist cum space scientist in search of world peace and harmony. And when you hear about his job, it falls into place He and his cofounders at Planet Labs want to show the earth what it looks like, in almost real time, via a new network of compact, capable satellites. They hope that up-to-date images will inform future humanitarian and commercial projects all over our planet and will help to enable people to make the best decisions for earth.,Before cofounding Planet Labs, Marshall was a scientist at NASA/USRA, where he helped to formulate the Small Spacecraft Office at NASA Ames Research Center. He worked on lunar orbiter mission LADEE, lunar impactor mission LCROSS and the groundbreaking PhoneSat project, building satellites out of consumer parts.
David, Grady,How to save the world (or at least yourself) from bad meetings,Information security manager,dgradylaw.com/,,David Grady is an information security manager who believes that strong communication skills are?a necessity in today’s global economy. He has been a print journalist, a “PR guy” and a website producer, and has ghostwritten speeches and magazine articles for Fortune 500 company executives. A mid-life career change brought him into the world of information risk management, where every day he uses his communications experience to transform complex problems into understandable challenges.,
Naná,Vasconcelos,Hidden music rituals around the world,Filmmaker,www.nanavasconcelos.com.br/,,“The best thing to tell people about piracy is this the only way to avoid piracy is to not make things for money, to share everything for free. In my world, piracy doesn’t exist.” — Now Then, 2012,
Vincent, Moon ,Hidden music rituals around the world,Filmmaker,www.vincentmoon.com,,“The best thing to tell people about piracy is this the only way to avoid piracy is to not make things for money, to share everything for free. In my world, piracy doesn’t exist.” — Now Then, 2012,
Leana, Wen,What your doctor won’t disclose,Emergency physician, public health advocate,www.drleanawen.com,,Physician and public health advocate Leana Wen has traveled the world listening to patients’ stories. Born in Shanghai, she was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, a reporter with The New York Times ’ Nick Kristof, and a fellow at the World Health Organization before assuming her current position as Director of Patient-Centered Care Research in the Department of Emergency Medicine at George Washington University. Inspired by struggles during her mother’s long illness , she wrote When Doctors Don't Listen , a book about empowering patients to avoid misdiagnoses and unnecessary tests.,As an outspoken leader among a new generation of physicians, she served as President of the American Medical Student Association and as Chair of the International Young Professionals Commission. Her latest cause is Who’s My Doctor , a campaign for radical transparency in medicine. Read her own transparency statement , and find more resources on TEDMED .
Ethan, Nadelmann,Why we need to end the War on Drugs,Drug policy reformer,https//www.ted.com/topics/policy,,“Marijuana is not gonna legalize itself.” — Rolling Stone, June 26, 2013,
Michael, Green,What the Social Progress Index can reveal about your country,Social progress expert,SocialProgressImperative.org,,In his book Philanthrocapitalism (co-authored with Economist business editor Matthew Bishop), Michael Green defined a new model for social change built on partnerships between wealthy businesses, governments and community organizations. Shortly thereafter, Bishop floated the idea of a “Social Competiveness Index,” the idea that one day countries would compete with one another to be the most socially advanced, in the same way as they now compete to be economic top dog. Green loved it and decided to turn it into reality.,Teaming up with Avina's president Brizio Biondi-Morra, Sally Osberg of the Skoll Foundation and many other thought leaders from businesses and foundations, he began work on what would become the Social Progress Imperative, of which he's now CEO. Later they were joined by Harvard management guru Michael E. Porter, who became chairman of the SPI's advisory board. The first Social Progress Index was published this year.
Ramanan, Laxminarayan,The coming crisis in antibiotics,Drug-resistance economist,cddep.org,,Economist Ramanan Laxminarayan works to improve understanding of drug resistance as a problem of managing a shared global resource. As Director and Senior Fellow at the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy (CDDEP), he is interested in cross-disciplinary, pragmatic solutions to reduce drug resistance. He has advised the World Health Organization and World Bank on evaluating malaria treatment policy, vaccination strategies, the economic burden of tuberculosis, and control of non-communicable diseases. He was a key architect of the Affordable Medicines Facility for malaria, a novel financing mechanism to improve access and delay resistance to antimalarial drugs. In 2012, he created the Immunization Technical Support Unit in India, which has been credited with improving the immunization program in the country. He teaches at Princeton.,
Haas,Haas&Hahn,How painting can transform communities,Favela painters,www.favelapainting.com,,,
Alejandro, Aravena,My architectural philosophy? Bring the community into the process,Urban architect,AlejandroAravena.com,,Throughout his career, Alejandro Aravena has grappled with what he calls the “double condition of cities.” Attracting people, knowledge, development and opportunities on one hand, the Chilean architect says cities also concentrate and magnify social pressures. Through Elemental , the firm he founded in 1994, Aravena has devoted as much time to the design of iconic structures like the San Joaquin Universidad Catolica's “Siamese Towers” and Santiago’s Metropolitan Park as he has to the design of flexible and beautiful low-cost housing for low-income families. The firm's work is not just about buildings, but about shaping lives.,
Kare, Anderson,Be an opportunity maker,Writer,www.forbes.com/sites/kareanderson/,,,
Ameenah, Gurib-Fakim,Humble plants that hide surprising secrets,Biodiversity scientist,cephyr-recherche.com,,She calls herself a chemist and a gardener (and she has a collection of 200 bonsai), but Ameenah Gurib-Fakim is the leading scientist studying the flora of one of the world's key biodiversity hotspots, the island of Mauritius. As the managing director of the Centre for Phytotherapy Research (Cephyr) and a professor of organic chemistry at the University of Mauritius, she explores and analyzes plants from the island and their health, nutritional and cosmetic applications.,She co-authored the African Herbal Pharmacopoeia, the first resource of its kind, led the first regional research project on the inventory and study of medicinal and aromatic plants of the Indian Ocean, and was the lead coordinating author on the international assessment of agricultural knowledge, science and technology for development, spearheaded by the World Bank.
Alessandra, Orofino,It’s our city. Let’s fix it,Political mobilization activist,nossascidades.org,,After working as a field researcher in Brazil and India, interviewing young girls who had been victims of domestic violence, Alessandra Orofino founded Meu Rio in 2011. The organization has fueled bottom-up local politics using a combination of on-the-ground actions and custom-designed online and mobile platforms and apps. Orofino, who's 25 years old with a degree in economics and human rights from Columbia, is a believer in participatory politics and in cities as the ideal locus for reinventing representative democracy, and with her team she has designed Meu Rio as a catalyst for youth activism. Among its 140,000 members are tens of thousands of millennials, identifying common issues, pooling ideas for solutions, and pressuring decision-makers to adopt new policies and practices.,“Alessandra Orofino is one of those people who identifies a problem and immediately starts planning possible solutions. By using web and mobile technology, she ... is helping change the way Cariocas interact with and influence public policy.” — Rachel Glickhouse, RioGringa blog, 2013
Jeremy, Heimans,What new power looks like,Activist,Purpose.com,,Jeremy Heimans has been building movements since childhood, when he ran precocious fax campaigns on issues such as environmental conservation and third world debt in his native Australia. A former McKinsey strategy consultant, he has co-founded several online campaign groups and citizen activism initiatives, including GetUp (an Australian political movement with more members than Australia's political parties combined), Avaaz (an online political movement with more than 40 million members) and AllOut (a global movement for LGBT people and their straight friends and family).,Now based in New York, Heimans is co-founder and CEO of Purpose , a social business that builds movements and ventures that he says, “uses the power of participation to bring change in the world.” He and colleague Henry Timms, executive director of 92nd Street Y, a cultural and community center in New York, and founder of #GivingTuesday, are set to publish an essay in November 2014 examining new forms of power and their meaning. As Heimans puts it, “Old power downloads and commands, new power uploads and shares.”
Debra, Jarvis,Yes, I survived cancer. But that doesn't define me,Chaplain + author,DebraJarvis.com,,For writer, ordained minister and hospital chaplain Debra Jarvis, humor is a powerful balm. She is not afraid to be funny even when doing very serious work with the sick and dying as a hospice chaplain, a pastoral consultant for volunteer groups caring for people with AIDS and MS, and a staff chaplain at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance. Debra is the author of It’s Not About the Hair And Other Certainties of Life & Cancer and numerous other books . Currently on sabbatical in Geneva, Debra’s last job was as writer-in-residence for the University Congregational United Church of Christ in Seattle. In her free time, Debra accompanies her Cairn terrier Max in his therapy dog work.,
Frans, Lanting,Photos that give voice to the animal kingdom,Nature photographer,www.lanting.com/,,In the pursuit of his work, Frans Lanting has lived in the trees with wild macaws, camped with giant tortoises inside a volcanic crater , and documented never-before-photographed wildlife and tribal traditions in Madagascar. The Dutch-born, California-based photographer has traveled to Botswana's Okavango Delta, the rain forests of Borneo and the home of emperor penguins in Antarctica. The resulting photographs -- staggering in their beauty, startling in their originality -- have brought much-needed attention to endangered species and ecological crises throughout the world. In 2001, HRH Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands inducted Lanting as a Knight in the Royal Order of the Golden Ark, the country's highest conservation honor -- just one of many honors he has received throughout his illustrious career.,“As a chronicler of natural history today, Frans Lanting is a singular extraordinary talent. He has the mind of a scientist, the heart of a hunter, and the eyes of a poet.” —
Sergei, Lupashin,A flying camera ... on a leash,Aerial robotics researcher,https//www.ted.com/speakers/sergei_lupashin,,When Sergei Lupashin saw how an aerial photograph of massive protests around the 2011 Russian federal elections changed the media silence around the subject, the aerial robotics engineer realized the truth-telling value of the bird’s-eye view. Yet aerial photographs, even those taken by unmanned aerial vehicles, are tricky to produce it’s difficult to pilot a UAV safely, and government regulations restrict their use.,Lupashin gets around both obstacles with his new invention, the Fotokite – a lightweight, camera-equipped quadricopter controlled with a tether (for the purposes of this demo, a dog leash). He turns one on, points it in a direction, and it flies out, hovering at a consistent angle. Then he launches a second, and a third. While the Fotokite would have a huge impact on journalism, it should also prove useful for archeologists, architects, wildlife biologists, emergency responders and more. The possibilities are endless. If you had one, Lupashin asks, what would you do with it?
Kimberley, Motley,How I defend the rule of law,International litigator,www.motleylegal.com/about.html,,Kimberley Motley possesses a rare kind of grit—the kind necessary to hang a shingle in Kabul, represent the under-represented, weather a kaleidoscope of threats, and win the respect of the Afghan legal establishment (and of tribal leaders). At present she practices in the U.S., Afghanistan, Dubai, and the International Criminal Courts, as her practice expands to other countries, she thinks deeply about how to engage the legal community to build the capacity of rule of law globally. After spending five years as a public defender in her native Milwaukee, Motley headed to Afghanistan to join a legal education program run by the U.S. State Department. She noticed Westerners stranded in Afghan prisons without representation, and started defending them. Today, she’s the only Western litigator in Kabul, and one of the most effective defense attorneys in Afghanistan. Her practice, which reports a 90 percent success rate, often represents non-Afghan defendants as well as pro-bono human rights cases.,“To the male-dominated Afghan court and prison establishment, she must appear to be someone from outer space. She acknowledges this but declares that she gets respect… She has proven to be a very effective and tenacious fighter.” — Tom Freston, Vanity Fair
Marc, Abrahams,A science award that makes you laugh, then think,Science humorist,Improbable.com,,“Marc Abrahams is a perfectly calibrated filtration system into which all of science is poured and out of which comes pure, giddy goofball delight.” — Mary Roach,
Fabien, Cousteau,What I learned from spending 31 days underwater,Ocean explorer and environmentalist,Mission-31.com,,“You get used to it. Eel, sharks, barracuda parking on your shoulder wondering what you're doing. Animals getting used to you in their environment.” — Time, July 2014,
Joy, Sun,Should you donate differently?,veteran aid worker,GiveDirectly.org,,The idea of using mobile technology to put cash directly into the hands of the poorest people on earth doesn’t sound crazy to veteran aid worker Joy Sun — it sounds deeply satisfying. In this talk, she talks about what happens when we use technology to give cash instead of services to the poor.,
Fred, Swaniker,The leaders who ruined Africa, and the generation who can fix it,Educational entrepreneur,swanikerscholars.org/freds-story/,,“Fred helped to start a biotech company, and now uses his expertise to help other young Africans develop their leadership skills so that they can come back and put those skills to use serving their communities, starting businesses, creating jobs. So thank you, Fred, for the great work that you’re doing.” — President Barack Obama, 2013,
Susan, Etlinger,What do we do with all this big data?,Data analyst,SusanEtlinger.com,,Susan Etlinger is an industry analyst with Altimeter Group, where she focuses on data and analytics. She conducts independent research and has authored two intriguing reports “ The Social Media ROI Cookbook ” and “ A Framework for Social Analytics .” She also advises global clients on how to work measurement into their organizational structure and how to extract insights from the social web which can lead to tangible actions. In addition, she works with technology innovators to help them refine their roadmaps and strategies.,Etlinger is on the board of The Big Boulder Initiative, an industry organization dedicated to promoting the successful and ethical use of social data. She is regularly interviewed and asked to speak on data strategy and best practices, and has been quoted in media outlets like The Wall Street Journal , The New York Times , and the BBC.
Kitra, Cahana,My father, locked in his body but soaring free,Vagabond photojournalist + conceptual artist,KitraCahana.com,,Kitra Cahana is a wanderer. The American-born photographer was raised in Canada and Sweden, with a father who worked as a rabbi and took his family along with him everywhere he traveled. Cahana's itinerant childhood is evident in her work, which has taken her to teenage rainbow parties, Venezuelan spiritual rituals , Ukranian Ultra-Orthodox prayer sites , American boxcars and bus stops and many more places. The 2014 TED Fellow embeds herself in the societies she documents, playing the part of photojouralist as well as enthnographer.,
Melissa, Fleming,How to help refugees rebuild their world,Voice for refugees,UNHCR.org,,,Almost 60 million people in the world today have been forcefully displaced from their home - a level not seen since WWII. As many as four million Syrian refugees have sought refuge in neighboring countries. In Lebanon, half of these refugees are children, only 20 percent are in school. Melissa Fleming of the UN's refugee agency calls on all of us to make sure that refugee camps are healing places where people can develop the skills they'll need to rebuild their hometowns. Investing in this, she says, may well be the most effective relief effort there is. This inspires her and the teams at the UN's High Commissioner for Refugees to tell stories of the individuals who are displaced.
Jorge, Soto,The future of early cancer detection?,Cancer technologist,SMJorge.com,,“The closest thing we have to a silver bullet against cancer is early detection, the earlier we detect it, the more effective the treatment.” — MirOculus website,
Myriam, Sidibe,The simple power of hand-washing,Public-health expert,globalhandwashing.org,,Myriam Sidibe is one of the only people in the world with a doctorate in public health focused on handwashing with soap. As the Global Social Mission Director for Lifebuoy soap, she has spent 14 years working with thousands of children understanding the most effective ways to get them to wash their hands with soap at key occasions like before eating or after using the bathroom.,Sidibe leads Social Mission activity in 55 countries throughout Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America with the aim of changing handwashing behaviours of one billion people by 2020 – that’s the biggest hygiene behaviour change program in the world.
Jeff, Iliff,One more reason to get a good night’s sleep,Neuroscientist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/jeff_iliff,,,
Glenn, Greenwald,Why privacy matters,Journalist,glenngreenwald.net/,,As one of the first journalists privy to NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden’s archives, Glenn Greenwald has a unique window into the inner workings of the NSA and Britain's GCHQ. A vocal advocate for civil liberties in the face of growing post-9/11 authoritarianism, Greenwald was a natural outlet for Snowden, who’d admired his combative writing style in Salon and elsewhere.,Since his original Guardian exposés of Snowden’s revelations, Pulitzer winner Greenwald continues to stoke public debate on surveillance and privacy both in the media, on The Intercept , and with his new book No Place to Hide -- and suggests that the there are more shocking revelations to come.
Dilip, Ratha,The hidden force in global economics sending money home,Remittances expert,DilipRatha.com,,At over US$400 billion per year, and growing, remittances -- money sent home by migrants -- are three times bigger than the total of international aid budgets, and represent some of the largest financial inflows to poor countries. Economist Dilip Ratha was the first to point out the global and national significance of remittances and their social and economic impact.,He is the manager of the Migration and Remittances team at the World Bank and the head of the Global knowledge partnership on migration and development (KNOMAD). He also co-coordinates the G8/G20 Global Remittances Working Group, and is involved in a number of other organizations focusing on remittances. Besides migration, he has done pioneering work on innovative financing including diaspora bonds and South-South foreign direct investment.
Pia, Mancini,How to upgrade democracy for the Internet era,Democracy activist,piamancini.com,,“[Partido de la Red] are a party of the present, looking to the future, who believe in using the tools of today - the internet and other technology – to radically change the current political system.” — The Daily Beast, 2014,
Meaghan, Ramsey,Why thinking you're ugly is bad for you,Self-esteem advocate,https//www.ted.com/speakers/meaghan_ramsey,,Meaghan Ramsey gets giddy watching her 1-year-old niece admire herself in the mirror. Because she knows that, for too many girls, this admiration stops as they move into adolescence and self-doubt about their appearance creeps in. As the Global Director of the Dove Self-Esteem Project at Unilever, Ramsey and her colleagues aim to improve the self-esteem of more than 15 million girls and young women by 2015. She is a strong ambassador for helping girls and women develop resilience in the face of a culture that assaults with unattainable images of beauty and thinness.,Both a brand developer and strategist, Ramsey has long worked to fuel business growth spurred on by social change. Prior to the Dove Self-Esteem Project, she worked with the World Heart Federation and the Dietitians Association of Australia.
Thomas, Piketty,New thoughts on capital in the twenty-first century,Economist,piketty.pse.ens.fr/en/cv-en,,,
Daria, van den Bercken,Why I take the piano on the road … and in the air,Pianist,DariavandenBercken.com,,Pianist Daria van den Bercken makes classical music lovers — and those who had no idea that they appreciated this kind of music — listen to classic composers with fresh ears. She has played with the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra, the Arnhem Philharmonic Orchestra and the Radio Philharmonic Orchestra, and is a regular guest at the Concertgebouw Amsterdam. But it’s bringing classic music to unexpected audiences where her passion engages.,While sick with the flu several years ago, Daria discovered the keyboard compositions of George Frideric Handel. She wanted to bring these beautiful works to the masses. With her project ‘Handel at the Piano,’ she played these pieces in unexpected places — even flying with her piano 25-feet over the audience at the Virada Cultural Festival in São Paulo, Brazil. Through a series of concerts, and an album, she asked audiences to rethink Handel.
Nancy, Kanwisher,A neural portrait of the human mind,Brain researcher,nancysbraintalks.mit.edu,,Does the brain use specialized processors to solve complex problems, or does it rely instead on more general-purpose systems?,This question has been at the crux of brain research for centuries. MIT researcher Nancy Kanwisher seeks to answer this question by discovering a “parts list” for the human mind and brain. Understanding the nature of the human mind, she says , is arguably the greatest intellectual quest of all time.
Gail, Reed,Where to train the world's doctors? Cuba.,Cuban health care expert,Medicc.org,,,
Susan, Colantuono,The career advice you probably didn’t get,Leadership expert,LeadingWomen.biz,,,
Francis, de los Reyes,Sanitation is a basic human right,Environmental engineer, sanitation activist,www.ce.ncsu.edu/faculty/francis-de-los-reyes/,,Dr. Francis L. de los Reyes III is a Professor of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering, Associate Faculty of Microbiology, and Training Faculty of Biotechnology at North Carolina State University. His research focuses on biological processes and combines modeling, bioreactor experiments, and molecular microbial ecology tools in addressing fundamental and practical issues in environmental biotechnology and environmental engineering. An important area of his research and teaching is water and sanitation in developing countries.,Current and past research projects (funding of ~ $4.5 M in last 10 years) include quantitative microbial risk assessment of graywater reuse (WRRI), molecular analysis and modeling of the competition between filaments and floc-formers in activated sludge (NSF), analysis of the ecophysiology of nitrifiers and denitrifiers in microbial floc (NSF), optimization of a swine waste treatment system for nitrogen removal (US Department of Agriculture), analysis of the fate of bioagents in landfills (EPA), microbial characterization of landfills (Waste Management, Inc.), molecular techniques for groundwater remedation sites (US DOE/DOD), investigation of foam control methods (Hazen and Sawyer), development of probes for environmentally versatile Bacillus strains (Novozymes Biochemicals, Inc.), improvement of sludge dewatering (NC WRRI), microbial ecology of grease interceptors (CSPA) and the system-wide optimization of wastewater treatment plants using genetic algorithms.
Moshe, Safdie,How to reinvent the apartment building,Architect,www.motivatinglife.com/page/15/,,Moshe Safdie's master's thesis quickly became a cult building his modular Habitat '67 apartments for Montreal Expo '67. Within a dizzying pile of concrete, each apartment was carefully sited to have natural light and a tiny, private outdoor space for gardening. These themes have carried forward throughout Safdie's career -- his buildings tend to soak in the light, and to hold cozy, user-friendly spaces inside larger gestures.,He's a triple citizen of Canada, Israel and the United States, three places where the bulk of his buildings can be found in Canada, the National Gallery in Ottawa, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the Vancouver public library. For Yad Vashem, the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem, he designed the Children's Memorial and the Memorial to the Deportees, he's also built airport terminals in Tel Aviv. In the US, he designed the elegant and understated Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Masachusetts, and the Crystal Bridges Museum in Arkansas.
Matthew, O'Reilly,“Am I dying?” The honest answer.,Emergency medical technician,www.matthewreilly.com/,,When first responders are honest with the gravely injured, what happens? Watch this short, moving talk to find out.,
Eman, Mohammed,The courage to tell a hidden story,Photojournalist,EmanMohammed.com,,,
Kenneth, Cukier,Big data is better data,Data Editor of The Economist,www.cukier.com/,,As Data Editor of The Economist and co-author of Big Data A Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work, and Think , Kenneth Cukier has spent years immersed in big data, machine learning -- and the impact of both. What's the future of big data-driven technology and design? To find out, watch this talk.,
Lord ,Nicholas Stern,The state of the climate — and what we might do about it,Climate economist,newclimateeconomy.net,,Lord Nicholas Stern is the author of the seminal 2006 Review on the Economics of Climate Change , one of the most influential papers discussing the real economic implications of addressing (or not addressing) climate. The former Chief Economist at the World Bank, Lord Nicholas is now the IG Patel Professor of Economics and Government at the London School of Economics and Chairman of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment. Since 2013, he has been President of the British Academy. His research and publications have focused on the economics of climate change, economic development and growth, economic theory, tax reform, public policy and the role of the state and economies in transition.,In 2014, as part of a commission chaired by Felipe Calderon, Lord Nicholas helped produce a report titled  The New Climate Economy , laying out an economic plan for countering climate change.
Antonio, Donato Nobre,The magic of the Amazon A river that flows invisibly all around us,Scientist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/antonio_donato_nobre,,Antonio Donato Nobre sees nature as a well-orchestrated symphony. A visiting scientist at Brazil’s National Institute for Space Research (INPE) and a senior researcher at the National Institute of Amazonian Research (INPA) , he studies the soil, hydrology and biochemistry of the Amazon, to learn more about the complex, interlocking systems of this geographical marvel. He seeks to understand the interactions between the forest and the atmosphere, and how the sweat of the forest runs in a stream overhead that carries moisture to other parts of South America and the world, playing a large role in climate stability. His study “ El Futuro Climático de la Amazonía ” synthesizes research on how human beings are affecting the delicate balance of this region, and the huge risk we run if we lose it.,
Avi, Reichental,What’s next in 3D printing,3D printer,3dsystems.com,,Avi Reichental is the CEO of 3D Systems , which has been a major force in the field of rapid prototyping, turning a design from a CAD file into a solid object. But now, he's thinking about the idea of a 3D printer in every house. It's coming, he says, and we should think about what our lives will be like when we can design everything in our lives, then make it. Lately, he's been demo-ing the Cube, a tabletop 3D printer that can print a basketball-sized object, and the ChefJet, a food-grade machine that prints in sugar and chocolate (see Time ’s 25 Best Inventions of 2014 ). His company is also rolling out consumer-grade 3D scanning cameras that clip to a tablet to capture three-dimensional objects for printing out later. He's an instructor at Singularity University (watch his 4-minute intro to 3D printing ).,More amazing video from 3D Systems' video library 
Mac, Barnett,Why a good book is a secret door,Children's book author,MacBarnett.com,,Mac Barnett is the author of fifteen books for children. He was the executive director of 826LA, a nonprofit writing center, and founded the Echo Park Time Travel Mart, a convenience store for time travelers. In this talk about creativity and wonder, he explains why kids are the ideal readers of literary fiction -- and what adults can learn from them about imagination and the willing suspension of disbelief.,“[Mac Barnett is] a great young writer of books for young people. If you haven't read his work, run somewhere and do that. Books for young people have a rich and I daresay limitless future—knock anyone who says otherwise into a ditch—and Mac has a central place within that limitless future. Don't bet against him or anyone like him.” — Dave Eggers
Andrew, Connolly,What's the next window into our universe?,Astronomer,Lsst.org,,“We have to train the next generation in how to use these data sets, because they are ultimately the ones that are going to make the breakthroughs.” — Andrew Connolly,
Rishi, Manchanda,What makes us get sick? Look upstream,Physician,www.healthbegins.org/,,For a decade, Rishi Manchanda has worked as a doctor in South Central Los Angeles, treating patients who live and work in harsh conditions. He has worked at the Venice Family Clinic, one of the largest free clinics in the United States. He was the first director of social medicine at the St. John’s Well Child and Family Center in Compton, where he and his team provided high quality primary care to low-income families in the area. Currently, he is the medical director of a veterans’ clinic within the Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, which he refers to as an “intensive caring unit.” He tells the National Health Corps Services, “The moment when a patient switches from despair to hopefulness is the greatest part of my service.”,Manchanda is the author of the TED Book The Upstream Doctors , in which he looks at how health begins at home and in the workplace, with the social and environmental factors of our everyday lives. He shows how the future of our healthcare system depends on “upstreamists,” the doctors, nurses and other healthcare practitioners who look for the root cause of illness rather than just treating the symptoms.
Uldus, Bakhtiozina,Wry photos that turn stereotypes upside down,photographer + visual artist,Uldus.com,,Uldus Bakhtiozina is a photographer and visual artist who lives and works in Russia. Born in Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, Bakhtiozina studied and worked in graphic design and photography (and even politics, briefly) before settling on her particular style of absurd photos. Whether depicting a young boy in a tutu and Stormtrooper helmet or a hulking man wearing a collar of Barbie dolls, Bakhtiozina challenges gender and cultural norms with humor and magic, creating a fairytale world for the viewer.,
Hans, Rosling,How not to be ignorant about the world,Global health expert, data visionary,Gapminder.COM,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Dan, Barasch,A park underneath the hustle and bustle of New York City,Strategist,www.thelowline.org/about/the-team/,,Dan Barasch is the co-founder and executive director of the Lowline, an underground park that is being developed underneath the streets of New York City—in the Williamsburg Bridge Trolley Terminal. In use from 1908 to 1948, this terminal is now abandoned. The Lowline will be a one-acre park in a neighborhood where greenspace is hard to come by. The project uses innovative solar technology to capture light above ground and distribute it below, making it a space that can be used in all four seasons. Once a wild idea, the project got a big boost on Kickstarter, raising more than $155,000 for its development in 2012. The project promises to be the inverse of New York's High Line.,Barasch has long known that he wanted to make a difference, but for years, wasn't quite sure how to go about doing that. Before he left his job to work fultime on the Lowline, he led strategic partnerships at PopTech, held multiple roles at Google, and worked in small business development in New York City government. He also consulted for UNICEF in Nairobi and with the 9/11 Survivors’ Fund in Washington DC. He began his career at the World Affairs Council in San Francisco, co-producing the weekly NPR show “It’s Your World.”
Zak, Ebrahim,I am the son of a terrorist. Here's how I chose peace.,Peace activist,ZakEbrahim.com,,When Zak Ebrahim was seven, his family went on the run. His father, El Sayyid Nosair, had hoped Zak would follow in his footsteps -- and become a jihadist. Instead, Zak was at the beginning of a long journey to comprehend his past. Zak Ebrahim kept his family history a secret as they moved through a long succession of towns. In 2010, he realized his experience as a terrorist’s son not only gave him a unique perspective, but also a unique chance to show that if he could escape a violent heritage, anyone could. As he told Truthdig.com , “We must embrace tolerance and nonviolence. Who knows this better than the son of a terrorist?” In 2014 Ebrahim published the TED Book The Terrorist's Son , a memoir written with Jeff Giles about the path he took to turn away from hate. In early 2015 the book won an American Library Association Alex award .,“His message is tolerance and peace. And how the son can be different from the father.” — Philadelphia Inquirer, February 3, 2011
Colin, Grant,How our stories cross over,Author, historian,ColinGrant.info,,,
Shubhendu, Sharma,How to grow a tiny forest anywhere,Reforestation expert,Afforestt.com,,,
Isabel, Allende,How to live passionately—no matter your age,Novelist,IsabelAllende.com,,As a novelist and memoirist, Isabel Allende writes of passionate lives, including her own. Born into a Chilean family with political ties, she went into exile in the United States in the 1970s—an event that, she believes, created her as a writer. Her voice blends sweeping narrative with touches of magical realism, her stories are romantic, in the very best sense of the word. Her novels include The House of the Spirits , Eva Luna and The Stories of Eva Luna , and her latest, Maya's Notebook and Ripper . And don't forget her adventure trilogy for young readers— City of the Beasts , Kingdom of the Golden Dragon and Forest of the Pygmies .,As a memoirist, she has written about her vision of her lost Chile, in My Invented Country , and movingly tells the story of her life to her own daughter, in Paula . Her book Aphrodite A Memoir of the Senses memorably linked two sections of the bookstore that don't see much crossover Erotica and Cookbooks. Just as vital is her community work The Isabel Allende Foundation works with nonprofits in the San Francisco Bay Area and Chile to empower and protect women and girls—understanding that empowering women is the only true route to social and economic justice.
Jim, Holt,Why does the universe exist?,Writer and philosopher,https//www.ted.com/speakers/jim_holt,,In his 2012 book Why Does the World Exist? An Existential Detective Story , Jim Holt creates a narrative out of one of the biggest questions we can ask -- and how modern scientists and philosophers are asking it. Can answers be found in many-worlds theory, in quantum mechanics, in a theology? Traveling around North America and Europe, he talks to physicists, including David Deutsch, philosophers, including Richard Swinburne, and the novelist John Updike. Why? Because as he tells Vanity Fair , To me it’s the most sublime and awesome question in all of philosophy and all of human inquiry. A longtime contributor to the New York Times, Slate and the New Yorker, Holt has written on string theory, time, infinity, numbers, humor, logic, truth and bullshit, among other topics. Holt studied mathematics at the University of Virginia, and was a faculty fellow in the philosophy department at Columbia. He is now at work on a book about free will, weakness of will, self-knowledge and happiness.,“Holt reminds us that no exploration of being — especially human being — can be separated from the human who undertakes it, complete with character and the play of moods. ” — Sarah Bakewell, New York Times Book Review
Jill, Shargaa,Please, please, people. Let's put the 'awe' back in 'awesome',Comedian + Designer,www.shargaa.com/,,Jill Shargaa’s comedy career took off in 1979, when she sold a one-liner to Joan Rivers for $9. She’s been making audiences laugh ever since, first as a member of the sketch comedy troupe The Funny Farm in Orlando, Florida, next on the ABC television show America’s Funniest People (she came in third), and now with her all-female comedy revue, Evening of Estrogen.,Jill is also the founder of Shargaa Illustration and Design, and has done work for Universal Studios Creative Resources and Walt Disney Imagineering. Half illustrator and half designer, she favors concepts that, go figure, raise a chuckle.
Sally, Kohn,Don't like clickbait? Don't click,Political pundit,www.sallykohn.com/,,Sally Kohn has a powerful vision for a more united United States. On Fox News, this progressive lesbian has sparred with some of the most conservative minds on television, and has sifted through hundreds of letters of hate mail a day. But she deeply believes in finding our common humanity, political differences aside. Before we can achieve political correctness, we must first establish emotional correctness — and this will ignite conversations that lead to real change.,Kohn has appeared on Fox, MSNBC and CNN, and has written for The Daily Beast, Salon, The Atlantic and TIME Magazine.
Meera, Vijayann,Find your voice against gender violence,Citizen journalist,MeeraVijayann.net,,Meera Vijayann began using digital media to tackle sexual violence in the aftermath of a tragic Delhi rape-and-murder case. In 2013, she won the CNN IBN Citizen Journalist Award for her reporting in the aftermath of the Delhi rape case. Her articles and blogs have appeared in the Guardian, CNN, Forbes, Open Democracy, IBN LIVE, The New Indian Express and other major media outlets.,Vijayann spoke as part of the TEDxChange session at TEDxHousesofParliament, supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. She is a Change Manager at Ashoka India, and as an elected member of the inaugural class of +SocialGood connectors , she facilitates dialogue between entrepreneurs, innovators and institutions to tackle global issues around gender rights and sexual violence.
Rose, Goslinga,Crop insurance, an idea worth seeding,Microinsurer,poptech.org/rose_goslinga,,Rose Goslinga describes her work as “insuring the rain.” Raised in Tanzania, Goslinga was working for the Rwandan Ministry of Agriculture in 2008 when the minister had a bold idea could they offer insurance to small farmers to protect them in case rain didn’t come when needed? Goslinga ran with the idea. Under the Syngenta Foundation’s Kilimo Salama program, which is Swahili for “safe farming,” the thought became a reality. Last year, through its local insurance partners, it insured 185,000 farmers in Kenya and Rwanda against drought, and was recently spun into a company called ACRE.,Think of microinsurance the way you think of microloans. The average farmer insured in this way has a half-acre farm and pays just two Euros as an annual premium. Rather than using farm visits to determine damages, cloud data determines when payouts are due to farmers. Building this program has taken the Syngenta Foundation six years and has greatly tested their aptitude for creative problem-solving, from figuring out how to get farmers to trust insurance companies to creating technological solutions to help map which farmers are using the product.
Martin, Rees,Can we prevent the end of the world?,Astrophysicist,ast.cam.ac.uk,,Lord Martin Rees has issued a clarion call for humanity. His 2004 book, ominously titled Our Final Hour , catalogues the threats facing the human race in a 21st century dominated by unprecedented and accelerating scientific change. He calls on scientists and nonscientists alike to take steps that will ensure our survival as a species. One of the world's leading astronomers, Rees is an emeritus professor of cosmology and astrophysics at Cambridge , and UK Astronomer Royal. Author of more than 500 research papers on cosmological topics ranging from black holes to quantum physics to the Big Bang, Rees has received countless awards for his scientific contributions. But equally significant has been his devotion to explaining the complexities of science for a general audience, in books like Before the Beginning and Our Cosmic Habitat .,“It is Sir Martin's eminent position as a leading cosmologist, studying the Universe, its birth and ultimate fate, which makes his new pronouncements both important and thought-provoking.” — BBC
Ziyah, Gafic,Everyday objects, tragic histories,Photographer + storyteller,ZiyahGafic.com,,Ziyah Gafic? uses his camera to capture the aftermath of war. He has traveled to Pakistan, Iraq and Chechnya to capture beautiful portraits of people carrying on with their lives in the face of destruction, he has photographed the everyday lives of children in Rwanda, a generation born from the widespread use of rape as a weapon during the Rwandan genocide. A moving question runs through his work After war, how do people manage to keep the fabric of society together?,Gafic?'s interest in this subject comes from his own biography. Born in Sarajevo, he was a teenager during the Bosnian War of the 1990s. Through photography, he parses what happened in his homeland. For his book Quest for Identity , Gafic? photographed the watches, keys, shoes, combs and glasses exhumed from mass graves 20 years after the Bosnian War. These objects are cleaned, catalogued and used to help identify the bodies found with them, but afterwards, they become what Gafic? calls “orphans of the narrative,” either destroyed or stored away out of sight and out of mind. His quest is to keep them in view as a last testament to the fact that these people existed, preserving them as an easily accessible visual archive that tells the story of what happened—integrating an objective forensic perspective with human compassion.
Laurel, Braitman,Depressed dogs, cats with OCD — what animal madness means for us humans,Science Historian + Writer,AnimalMadness.com,,,
Jarrett, J. Krosoczka,Why lunch ladies are heroes,Author/illustrator,studiojjk.com,,Jarrett J. Krosoczka has been a storyteller since the ripe age of eight, when he wrote his first book, The Owl Who Thought He Was The Best Flyer , about an owl who challenged Hermes to a flying race. Since that rather promising start Krosoczka has published 18 picture books and graphic novels for children, including the much-loved Lunch Lady series , which is a two-time winner of the Children's Choice Book Award. Krosoczka hosts The Book Report with JJK on Sirius XM's Kids Place Live, a radio show about books, aimed at kids 10 and younger. In 2010 he founded the Joseph and Shirley Krosoczka Memorial Youth Scholarships at Worcester Art Museum, to fund classes for young and underprivileged aspiring artists.,
Aziza, Chaouni,How I brought a river, and my city, back to life,Architect + ecotourism specialist,www.azizachaouniprojects.com/,,Civil engineer and architect Aziza Chaouni creates sustainable, built environments in the developing world, focusing on the deserts of the Middle East. Chaouni’s design philosophy holds that it is not enough for sustainable buildings to have zero impact—they must give back to the community on social, economic, infrastructural and environmental levels too. The founding principal of Aziza Chaouni Projects, she collaborates closely with local communities and experts from other disciplines to integrate architecture, landscape and infrastructure in innovative ways.,Born and raised in Fez, Morocco, Chaouni has long found herself fascinated with the Fez River, which winds through the city's ancient Medina. Once considered the city's soul, sending water to both public and private fountains, in the 1950s, the stream started to become a toxic sewer because of overcrowding, over-development and pollution. The city responded by covering the river over with concrete slabs, bit by bit, in the process destroying houses and creating dumping grounds. When Fez received a grant to divert and clean the river's water, Chaouni proposed the Fez River Project to uncover the river, restore its riverbanks and create pedestrian pathways. Her vision to reclaim these areas as public spaces and reconnect them to the rest of the city.
Tim, Berners-Lee,A Magna Carta for the web,Inventor,w3.org,,In the 1980s, scientists at CERN were asking themselves how massive, complex, collaborative projects -- like the fledgling LHC -- could be orchestrated and tracked. Tim Berners-Lee, then a contractor, answered by inventing the World Wide Web. This global system of hypertext documents, linked through the Internet, brought about a massive cultural shift ushered in by the new tech and content it made possible AOL, eBay, Wikipedia, TED.com...,Berners-Lee is now director of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), which maintains standards for the Web and continues to refine its design. Recently he has envisioned a Semantic Web -- an evolved version of the same system that recognizes the meaning of the information it carries. He's the 3Com Founders Professor of Engineering in the School of Engineering with a joint appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Laboratory for Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (CSAIL) at the MIT, where he also heads the Decentralized Information Group (DIG). He is also a Professor in the Electronics and Computer Science Department at the University of Southampton, UK.
Clint, Smith,The danger of silence,Poet, teacher,ClintSmithIII.com,,,
Eric, Liu,Why ordinary people need to understand power,Civics educator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/eric_liu,,,
Dan, Pacholke,How prisons can help inmates live meaningful lives,Prison administrator and reformer,SustainabilityInPrisons.org,,Dan Pacholke has spent more than three decades working in prisons, first as a corrections office and later as an administrator. Now the Deputy Secretary of Operations for the Washington State Department of Corrections, he says, “I don’t see my job as to punish or forgive [inmates], but I do think they can have decent and meaningful lives in prison.”,Pacholke has dedicated his career to changing the way we think about corrections. Over the years, he has helped usher in programs designed to prevent fires before they start rather than fight them after they’ve flared up. Pacholke has been part of initiatives to redesign prison facilities to maximize interaction between the staff and inmates, to give corrections officers training in verbal de-escalation as well as physical response, and to give inmates opportunities to learn new things while they are in the system. As the co-director of the Sustainability in Prisons Project, Pacholke brought recycling, composting, horticulture and even bee-keeping programs into prisons—to give inmates meaningful work, but also to cut costs and make prisons more sustainable.
Nick, Hanauer ,Beware, fellow plutocrats, the pitchforks are coming,Venture capitalist, author,www.nickhanauer.com/,,Nick Hanauer has founded, co-founded and funded more than 30 companies across a range of industries, with a pretty notable rocord of success. As a few highlights, he cofounded a company called aQuantive that sold to Microsoft for $6.4 billion, and was the first non-family investor in Amazon. Meanwhile Hanauer, a “proud and unapologetic capitalist,” has also been looking closely at society’s growing inequality gap, and the consequences it holds for our shared destiny — and the ultimate fate of our democracies. In 2007, he and civic activist Eric Liu co-wrote the book The True Patriot , an examination of progressive patriotism. This was followed by 2011’s The Gardens of Democracy , also with Liu, a vision for “growing” good citizens.,In 2013, Hanauer published a commentary in Bloomberg BusinessWeek proposing a $15 minimum wage (a suggestion that Seattle acted on this year). Early in 2014, he and Eric Beinhocker published  Capitalism, Redefined . In the summer of 2014, Hanauer published a much-shared essay in Politico that suggests, if societal inequality is allowed to grow unchecked, modern societies could start looking an awful lot like pre-Revolutionary France.
Talithia, Williams,Own your body's data,Statistician,https//www.math.hmc.edu/~twilliams/,,Dr. Talithia Williams is an Associate Professor of Mathematics at Harvey Mudd College. Her professional experiences include research appointments at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), the National Security Agency (NSA), and NASA. Dr. Williams develops statistical models that emphasize the spatial and temporal structure of data with environmental applications. She has been recognized for the development of a cataract model used to predict the cataract surgical rate for developing countries in Africa. In addition to her academic accomplishments, Dr. Williams and her husband, Donald, actively teach and share foundational principles regarding the joys of Christian marriage. Dr. Williams’ talk will explore how each of us can begin to collect data about ourselves that can provide insight into our personal health.,
Megan, Washington,Why I live in mortal dread of public speaking,Musician,MeganWashington.com,,The lyrics of Megan Washington’s songs have a beautiful, confessional tone she sings about heartbreak, insecurity, rage, you name it. But there is one thing that Washington avoided sharing publicly before stepping on the stage of TEDxSydney 2014 that she has a stutter.,One of Australia’s most promising singer/songwriters, Megan Washington won two ARIA Awards in 2010 for “Best Female Artist” and “Breakthrough Artist” following the release of her album, I Believe You Liar . The album went platinum, and she followed it up in 2012 with Insomnia . Her latest album, There There , will be released on September 12, 2014.
Janet, Iwasa,How animations can help scientists test a hypothesis,Molecular animator,JanetIwasa.com,,,
Hubertus, Knabe,The dark secrets of a surveillance state,Historian,https//www.ted.com/speakers/hubertus_knabe,,,
Margaret, Gould Stewart,How giant websites design for you (and a billion others, too),User experience master,www.fountly.com/,,Margaret Gould Stewart has spent her career asking, “How do we design user experiences that change the world in fundamental ways?” It's a powerful question that has led her to manage user experiences for six of the ten most visited websites in the world, including Facebook, where she serves as Director of Product Design.,Before joining Facebook, Margaret managed the User Experience Team for YouTube, where she oversaw the largest redesign in the company's history, including the YouTube player page. She came to YouTube after two years leading Search and Consumer Products UX at Google. She approaches her work with a combined appreciation for timeless great design and transient digital technologies, and always with the end goal of improving people's lives. As she says Design is creativity in service of others.
Shai, Reshef,An ultra-low-cost college degree,Education entrepreneur,uopeople.org,,Shai Reshef wants to democratize higher education. At University of the People , he runs a tuition-free online school that offers tuition-free college-level studies to students across the globe, offering bachelor's and associate's degrees in two specialized areas where the jobs are computer science and business administration. The university, which is partnered with New York University and accredited by DETC , has admitted several thousand students from more than one hundred countries.,In 2010, the Huffington Post named Reshef the Ultimate Game Changer in education, and WIRED included him in its list of the 50 people who will change the world. In 2015 the Financial Times reported that the school is now developing two MBA programs .
Ze, Frank,Are you human?,Humorist, web artist,zefrank.com,,Ever since his How to Dance Properly viral video -- born as a party invite for 17 friends -- hit the Web in 2001, Ze Frank has been making people giggle, guffaw and gasp out loud whilst procrastinating at work. He defines, in many ways, the genre of online comedy, and continues to innovate madly on the form.,In 2006 he launched a year-long daily video blog called The Show with Ze Frank , which Slate.com called the best sustained comedy run in the history of the Web. His rapid-fire delivery and absurd explorations in audience participation (like Earth Sandwich) has influenced a generation of digital native YouTubers. Perhap his most brilliant move calling on fans to write the show for him. Using collaborative tools, online viewers collectively put words in his mouth (and props in his lap), he faithfully performed this wiki-comedy each week for his Fabuloso Friday show.
Heather, Barnett,What humans can learn from semi-intelligent slime,Artist,HeatherBarnett.co.uk,,,
Shih, Chieh Huang,Sculptures that’d be at home in the deep sea,Artist,MessyMix.com,,Shih Chieh Huang has one goal with his art to create experiences for people to explore. He finds inspiration for his work from some highly unusual sources a bioluminescent fish, a garbage bag, even his belly button.,A TED Fellow, Shih Chieh Huang grew up in Taiwan, where he enjoyed discovering strange objects in his local night market. He developed a passion for taking apart everyday objects and transforming them into something new. These experiences—as well as a fellowship at the Smithsonian Institute studying bioluminescent organisms—deeply inform his work.
Nikolai, Begg,A tool to fix one of the most dangerous moments in surgery,Mechanical engineer,https//myteducation.wordpress.com/.../nikolai-begg-a-tool-to-fix-one-of...,,,
David, Chalmers,How do you explain consciousness?,Philosopher,consc.net/,,David Chalmers is a philosopher at the Australian National University and New York University. He works in philosophy of mind and in related areas of philosophy and cognitive science. While he's especially known for his theories on consciousness, he's also interested (and has extensively published) in all sorts of other issues in the foundations of cognitive science, the philosophy of language, metaphysics and epistemology. Chalmers placed the hard problem of consciousness firmly on the philosophical map. He famously challenges materialist conceptions of mind, arguing for an explanatory gap between our brains’ physical properties and our minds’ qualia. Elsewhere he has championed the notion of the extended mind, which argues that the mind is not confined to skin or skull, but plausibly may extend beyond them.,“It is the only major question in the sciences that we don't even know how to ask.” — James Trefil
David, Kwong,Two nerdy obsessions meet — and it's magic,Cruciverbalist,davidkwongmagic.com/,,As a magician and crossword puzzle constructor, David Kwong mixes puzzles and prestidigitation. With a background in film (and a Harvard degree in the history of magic), he's the founder of the Misdirectors Guild , an elite group of magicians that specialize in illusion for film, television and theater (they're working right now on Marvel's upcoming Ant-Man ). Kwong created the illusions for the 2013 hit film Now You See Me , about a gang of street magicians caught up in a crime caper. He is a frequent crossword writer for the New York Times , often collaborating with his friend Kevan Choset. His puzzles are marked by clever, outside-the-grid thinking -- and sometimes a dash of magic.,“I believe that magic and puzzles are the same thing, so I am trying to create this new breed of illusion and enigmas.” — David Kwong
Karima, Bennoune,When people of Muslim heritage challenge fundamentalism,Professor of international law,karimabennoune.com,,Karima Bennoune is a professor of international law at the University of California–Davis School of Law. She grew up in Algeria and the United States and now lives in northern California. She has published widely in many leading academic journals, as well as in the Guardian, The New York Times, Comment is Free, the website of Al Jazeera English, The Nation. The topic of her most recent publication ‘Your Fatwa Does Not Apply Here’ is a very personal one for her. Her father Mahfoud Bennoune was an outspoken professor at the University of Algiers, and faced death threats during the 1990s, but continued speaking out against fundamentalism and terrorism. In writing this book, Karima set out to meet people who are today doing what her father did back then, to try to garner for them greater international support than Algerian democrats received during the 1990s. She has served as a member of the Executive Council of the American Society of International Law and on the board of directors of Amnesty International USA. Currently, she sits on the Board of the Network of Women Living Under Muslim Laws. She has also been a consultant on human rights issues for the International Council on Human Rights Policy, the Soros Foundation, the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers, and for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Her human rights field missions have included Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Fiji, Lebanon, Pakistan, South Korea, southern Thailand, and Tunisia. She traveled to Algeria in February 2011 to serve as an observer at pro-democracy protests with the support of the Urgent Action Fund for Women’s Human Rights, writing a series of articles about these events for the Guardian. In October 2011, she volunteered as an election observer during the Tunisian constituent assembly elections with Gender Concerns International.,
Renata, Salecl,Our unhealthy obsession with choice,Theorist,www.cardozo.yu.edu/directory/renata-salecl,,Why are we the way we are, as individuals and as larger societies? In her relentless effort to answer this question, theorist Renata Salecl mines law, sociology, criminology, philosophy, and psychoanalysis to arrive at some unsettling conclusions.,Salecl—who researches and teaches at universities in her native Slovenia, in New York, and in London—argues that the modern, capitalism-driven imperative to become masters of our own lives leads to personal and social paralysis. We are obsessed with the impossible ideal of perfection and with others’ regard for us to a point that's politically de-mobilizing obsessed with the idea of personal betterment, we ignore social change. Constant anxiety, kept alive in more-or-less conscious ways by the political system and by the media, further numbs our social criticism. Many people opt to tune out and live in denial. These themes form the core of Salecl's most recent books, The Tyranny of Choice and On Anxiety .
Nicholas, Negroponte,A 30-year history of the future,Tech visionary,www.media.mit.edu/~nicholas/,,A pioneer in the field of computer-aided design, Negroponte founded (and was the first director of) MIT's Media Lab , which helped drive the multimedia revolution and now houses more than 500 researchers and staff across a broad range of disciplines. An original investor in Wired (and the magazine's patron saint), for five years he penned a column exploring the frontiers of technology -- ideas that he expanded into his 1995 best-selling book Being Digital . An angel investor extraordinaire, he's funded more than 40 startups, and served on the boards of companies such as Motorola and Ambient Devices.,But his latest effort, the One Laptop per Child project, may prove his most ambitious. The organization is designing, manufacturing and distributing low-cost, wireless Internet-enabled computers costing roughly $100 and aimed at children. Negroponte hopes to put millions of these devices in the hands of children in the developing world.
Joi, Ito,Want to innovate? Become a now-ist,Relentless mind,joi.ito.com,,Joichi Joi Ito is one of those names threaded through the history of the Internet. From his days kickstarting Internet culture in Japan at Digital Garage, his restless curiosity led him to be an early-stage investor in Twitter, Six Apart, Wikia, Flickr, Last.fm, Kickstarter and other Internet companies, and to serve on countless boards and advisory committees around digital culture and Internet freedom. He leads the legendary MIT Media Lab as it heads toward its third decade, and is working on a book with Jeff Howe about nine principles for navigating whatever the changing culture throws at us next. As he told Wired , The amount of money and the amount of permission that you need to create an idea has decreased dramatically. So aim for resilience, not strength, seek risk, not safety. The book is meant to be a compass for a world without maps.,“[His] role at MIT, and as a globetrotting entrepreneurial tech guy, puts [him] in the center of change on a daily basis.” — Wired
George, Takei,Why I love a country that once betrayed me,Actor and activist,www.georgetakei.com/,,George Takei is known for his portrayal of Mr. Sulu in the original Star Trek TV series and films, but since serving as the helm officer on the USS Enterprise , he's become a pop culture icon here on this planet. To Be Takei, a documentary on his life and career directed by Jennifer M. Kroot that premiered at Sundance in January 2014, will be released theatrically in August 2014.,Takei is a master of Facebook virality, and has written two books about it Oh Myyy! - There Goes The Internet and Lions and Tigers and Bears - The Internet Strikes Back (known collectively as Life, the Internet and Everything, Books 1 and 2 ). He's also the host of the YouTube series Takei's Take .
Paul, Bloom,Can prejudice ever be a good thing?,Psychologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/paul_bloom,,In Paul Bloom’s last book, How Pleasure Works , he explores the often-mysterious enjoyment that people get out of experiences such as sex, food, art, and stories. His latest book, Just Babies , examines the nature and origins of good and evil. How do we decide what's fair and unfair? What is the relationship between emotion and rationality in our judgments of right and wrong? And how much of morality is present at birth? To answer these questions, he and his colleagues at Yale study how babies make moral decisions. (How do you present a moral quandary to a 6-month-old? Through simple, gamelike experiments that yield surprisingly adult-like results.),Paul Bloom is a passionate teacher of undergraduates, and his popular Introduction to Psychology 110 class has been released to the world through the Open Yale Courses program. He has recently completed a second MOOC, “Moralities of Everyday Life”, that introduced moral psychology to tens of thousands of students. And he also presents his research to a popular audience though articles in The Atlantic , The New Yorker , and The New York Times . Many of the projects he works on are student-initiated, and all of them, he notes, are strongly interdisciplinary, bringing in theory and research from areas such as cognitive, social, and developmental psychology, evolutionary theory, linguistics, theology and philosophy.
Simon, Anholt,Which country does the most good for the world?,Policy advisor,SimonAnholt.com,,“The only remaining superpower is international public opinion,” says Simon Anholt, an independent policy advisor who has helped more than 50 countries engage more productively with the rest of the world. He believes that public opinion cannot be shifted on the surface, but only moves when a government makes real changes in its values and behavior by rolling out enlightened policies, developing dynamic exchanges with other nations and committing to global betterment.,Simon Anholt has worked closely with heads of governments in countries ranging from the Netherlands to Botswana, from Jamaica to Malaysia. In his home country of the United Kingdom, he is a member of the Foreign Office Public Diplomacy Board and he frequently collaborates with multilateral institutions like the United Nations.
Sara, Lewis,The loves and lies of fireflies,Firefly specialist,saralewisrealestate.com/,,“Sara Lewis is fluent in firefly.” — New York Times, July 29, 2009,
Chris, Domas,The 1s and 0s behind cyber warfare,Cybersecurity researcher,battelle.org,,Chris Domas is a cyber-security researcher at the Battelle Memorial Institute . He specializes in embedded systems reverse-engineering (RE) and vulnerability analysis, figuring out how to manipulate electronic devices. Applying this towards national security, his group develops cyber technology that protects people on the newest front of global war.,Domas graduated from Ohio State University, where he set out to take every class offered by the school. He bounced between majors in electrical engineering, physics, mathematics, mechanical engineering, biology, chemistry, statistics, biomedical engineering, computer graphics, psychology, and linguistics, but finally ran out of money and was forced to graduate. Settling on a degree in computer science, with an irrelevant handful of minors, he joined Battelle as a cyber security researcher. Today, he strives to incorporate ideas from these disparate fields to tackle the world’s most challenging cyber problems in innovative and unexpected ways. As a result of his work, he received Battelle’s coveted 2013 Emerging Scientist and 2013 Technical Achievement awards. He continues to present research around the country, most recently at the cyber security conferences Black Hat , REcon and DerbyCon .
Julian, Treasure,How to speak so that people want to listen,Sound consultant,JulianTreasure.com,,Julian Treasure is the chair of the Sound Agency , a firm that advises worldwide businesses -- offices, retailers, hotels -- on how to use sound. He asks us to pay attention to the sounds that surround us . How do they make us feel productive, stressed, energized, acquisitive?,Treasure is the author of the book Sound Business and keeps a blog by the same name that ruminates on aural matters (and offers a nice day-by-day writeup of TEDGlobal 2009). In the early 1980s, Treasure was the drummer for the Fall-influenced band Transmitters .
Ge, Wang,The DIY orchestra of the future,Music technologist,GeWang.com,,Ge Wang explores the intersection of technology and music, researching how programming languages and interactive software systems can push computer music from coded beeps and tones to something that musicians can actively play in the moment. An assistant professor at Stanford University, Wang is the founding director of both the Stanford Laptop Orchestra ( SLOrk ) and the Stanford Mobile Phone Orchestra ( MoPho ).,Wang is also the man behind ChucK, a programming language built specifically for sound. He also co-founded Smule, a startup dedicated to musical apps that let people around the world make beautiful music … and connect with each other in the process. Their app Ocarina turns your iPhone into an ancient flute, for example, and Guitar! lets you strum your phone while a karaokist somewhere in the world provides lyrical support.
Naomi, Oreskes,Why we should trust scientists,Historian of science,www.merchantsofdoubt.org/authors.html,,Noami Oreskes is a professor of the History of Science and an affiliated professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences at Harvard University. She received her PhD at Stanford in 1990 in the Graduate Special Program in Geological Research and History of Science.,In her 2004 paper published in Science , Beyond the Ivory Tower The Scientific Consensus on Climate Change,” Oreskes analyzed nearly 1,000 scientific journals to directly assess the magnitude of scientific consensus around anthropogenic climate change. The paper was famously cited by Al Gore in his film An Inconvenient Truth and led Oreskes to testify in front of the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works.
Lorrie, Faith Cranor,What’s wrong with your pa$$w0rd?,Security researcher,lorrie.cranor.org,,Lorrie Faith Cranor is an Associate Professor of Computer Science and of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University , where she is director of the CyLab Usable Privacy and Security Laboratory (CUPS) and co-director of the MSIT-Privacy Engineering masters program. She is also a co-founder of Wombat Security Technologies, Inc. She has authored over 100 research papers on online privacy, usable security, phishing, spam, electronic voting, anonymous publishing, and other topics.,Cranor plays a key role in building the usable privacy and security research community, having co-edited the seminal book Security and Usability and founded the Symposium On Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS). She also chaired the Platform for Privacy Preferences Project (P3P) Specification Working Group at the W3C and authored the book Web Privacy with P3P . She has served on a number of boards, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation Board of Directors, and on the editorial boards of several journals. In 2003 she was named one of the top 100 innovators 35 or younger by Technology Review.
Shaka, Senghor,Why your worst deeds don’t define you,Author,ShakaSenghor.com,,At the age of 19, Shaka Senghor went to prison fuming with anger and despair. Senghor was a drug dealer in Detroit, and one night, he shot and killed a man who showed up on his doorstep. While serving his sentence for second-degree murder, Senghor discovered redemption and responsibility through literature -- starting with The Autobiography of Malcolm X -- and through his own writing.,Upon his release at the age of 38, Senghor reached out to young men following his same troubled path, and published Live in Peace as part of an outreach program bringing hope to kids in Detroit and across the Midwest. His activism attracted the attention of the MIT Media Lab, and as a Director’s Fellow, Senghor has collaborated on imagining creative solutions for the problems plaguing distressed communities. His memoir, Writing My Wrongs , was published in 2013.
Billy ,Collins,Two poems about what dogs think (probably),Poet,billy-collins.com,,Accessibility is not a word often associated with great poetry. Yet Billy Collins has managed to create a legacy from what he calls being poetically “hospitable.” Preferring lyrical simplicity to abstruse intellectualism, Collins combines humility and depth of perception, undercutting light and digestible topics with dark and at times biting humor.,While Collins approaches his work with a healthy sense of self-deprecation, calling his poems “domestic” and “middle class,” John Taylor has said of Collins “Rarely has anyone written poems that appear so transparent on the surface yet become so ambiguous, thought-provoking, or simply wise once the reader has peered into the depths.”
Jamila, Lyiscott,3 ways to speak English,Poet and educator,jamilalyiscott.com,,Jamila Lyiscott is currently an advanced doctoral candidate and adjunct professor at Columbia University’s Teachers College where her work focuses on the education of the African Diaspora. She is also an adjunct professor at Long Island University where she teaches on adult and adolescent literacy within the Urban Education system. A spoken word artist since the age of fifteen, Jamila works with youth, educators, and activists throughout the city to create spaces that reflect and engage the cultures and values of black and brown youth inside and outside of the classroom.,A Zankel Fellow, Lyiscott is also working as a Graduate Research Fellow at the Institute for Urban and Minority Education where she leads the Cyphers For Justice youth, research, and advocacy program. Jamila’s poetry and scholarly work has been published in Teachers and Writers Collaborative Magazine and English Journal . She has directed several conferences and projects both locally and internationally and has presented both spoken word and academic papers at many seminars. Through her community, scholastic, and artistic efforts, Jamila hopes to play a key role in forging better connections between the world of academia and communities of color outside.
Ruth, Chang,How to make hard choices,Philosopher,ruthchang.net,,When Ruth Chang graduated from college, she was presented with a choice Should she pursue a career in philosophy, or a career in law? Soon after finishing Harvard Law School and dipping her toe in the legal world, she regretted her decision and switched paths. She went off to Oxford University to study philosophy and has been a philosopher studying choice, freedom, value and action ever since.,Chang's research focuses on decision-making and the human condition How do we exercise our freedom through the choices we make? She studies the relationship between reason and value, and how we navigate the sea of pros and cons as we make decisions that shape our lives.
Anne, Curzan ,What makes a word real?,Language historian,https//www.ted.com/speakers/anne_curzan,,Anne Curzan is a collector of slang words, a dissector of colloquialisms and a charter of language evolution. To put it most simply, she is a Professor of English at the University of Michigan who studies how the English language works and how it has changed over time. As she puts it in her talk, “The English language is rich, vibrant and filled with the creativity of the people who speak it.”,In addition to sitting on the usage panel for American Heritage dictionary since 2005, Curzan is also an author—her latest book is called Fixing English Prescriptivism and Language History . She also co-hosts the show “ That’s What They Say ” on Michigan Radio, all about language and grammar, and writes regularly for The Chronicle of Higher Education ’s language blog, Lingua Franca .
Kwame, Anthony Appiah,Is religion good or bad? (This is a trick question),Philosopher,appiah.net,,Kwame Anthony Appiah works on political and moral theory, the philosophy of language and mind, and African intellectual history. In his 2010 book The Honor Code, he explores a hidden engine of reform appeals to honor. Examining moral revolutions in the past—and campaigns against abhorrent practices today—he shows that appeals to reason, morality, or religion aren’t enough to ring in reform.,He's the author of Lines of Descent, a thoughtful look at the career of sociologist W.E.B. DuBois, and Cosmopolitanism Ethics in a World of Strangers, which studied the powerful ties that connect people across religions, culture and nations … and of the deep conflicts within them. In 2008, Appiah published Experiments in Ethics, in which he reviews the relevance of empirical research to ethical theory. Appiah has also published several novels, including Avenging Angel, Nobody Likes Letitia and Another Death in Venice .
AJ ,Jacobs,The world's largest family reunion … we're all invited!,Author,ajjacobs.com,,AJ Jacobs' writings stand at the intersection of philosophy, Gonzo journalism and performance art. Stubbornly curious and slyly perceptive, he takes immersive learning to its irrational and profoundly amusing extreme -- extracting wisdom and meaning after long stints as a self-styled guinea pig. For his widely circulated Esquire article  My Outsourced Life , he explored the phenomenon of outsourcing by hiring a team in Bangalore to take care of every part of his life -- from reading his emails to arguing with his wife to reading bedtime stories to his own son. A previous article,  I Think You're Fat , chronicled a brief, cringe-inducing attempt to live his life in Radical Honesty, telling all the truth, all the time.,Jacobs is author of The Know-It-All , which documents the year he spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z, uncovering both funny and surprising factoids but also poignant insight into history and human nature. In 2007 he released The Year of Living Biblically , in which he attempted to follow every single rule in the Bible as literally as possible for an entire year. His recent book My Life as an Experiment is a collection of numerous personal experiments. including living according to George Washington's rules of conduct, outsourcing every single task to India, and posing as a woman on an online dating site.
Uri, Alon,Why truly innovative science demands a leap into the unknown,Systems biologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/uri_alon,,“Understanding how improvisation works can help create optimal conditions for generating new, original ideas in research.” — The Weizmann Wave,
Will, Potter,The shocking move to criminalize nonviolent protest,Investigative journalist,willpotter.com/,,Independent journalist and TED Fellow Will Potter is based in Washington, D.C., his current work examines how whistleblowers and non-violent protesters are being treated as terrorists.,The author of Green Is The New Red An Insider's Account of a Social Movement Under Siege , Potter has extensively documented how non-violent protest is slowly being criminalized. His reporting and commentary have been featured in the world's top media outlets, including the Washington Post , NPR, Rolling Stone , El Pais , and Le Monde . He has testified before the U.S. Congress about his reporting, as the only witness opposing the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act -- and he is a plaintiff in the first lawsuits challenging so-called ag-gag laws as unconstitutional.
Keren, Elazari,Hackers the Internet's immune system,Cybersecurity expert,k3r3n3.com,,A GigaOM analyst and Israeli hacking scene insider, Keren Elazari moves through business, academic and security circles, researching new technologies and emerging security threats. Inspired by science fiction in her teenage years and fuelled by insatiable curiosity, Elazari spent years investigating the darker corners of cyberspace.,Today, she emerges with a new understanding of the hacker underworld. Information is the new currency of our digital society, and those who can control it have become powerful actors -- whether they choose to be heroes or villains. As she says, Hacking has become a superpower that can positively impact millions worldwide – if we learn how to harness it.”
Stella, Young,I’m not your inspiration, thank you very much,Comedian, journalist, activist,stellayoung.com,,Born in Stawell in Western Victoria, Australia, Stella Young cut her activist teeth at the age of 14 by conducting an access audit of shops on the local main street. It didn’t take long -- it was a pretty short street.,She became active in the disability community in a variety of roles, including membership of the Victorian Disability Advisory Council, Ministerial Advisory Council for the Department of Victorian communities and Women With Disabilities Victoria. Young was a two-time state finalist in the Melbourne International Comedy Festival’s Raw Comedy competition, and hosted eight seasons of Australia’s first disability culture program, No Limits, aired on Channel 31 and community stations across the country.
Yoruba, Richen,What the gay rights movement learned from the civil rights movement,Documentary filmmaker,www.newblackfilm.com/filmmakers/,,“[The New Black] is a daring piece to say the least, exploring the often volatile relationship between the LGBTQ community and African Americans with ease, patience and eloquence.” — Loop21.com,
Robert, Full,The secrets of nature's grossest creatures, channeled into robots,Biologist,polypedal.berkeley.edu,,UC Berkeley biologist Robert Full is fascinated by the motion of creatures like cockroaches, crabs and geckos having many legs, unusual feet or talented tails. He has led an effort to demonstrate the value of learning from Nature by the creating interdisciplinary collaborations of biologists, engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists from academia and industry. He founded CiBER , the Center for interdisciplinary Bio-inspiration in Education and Research, and the Poly-PEDAL Laboratory , which studies the Performance, Energetics and Dynamics of Animal Locomotion (PEDAL) in many-footed creatures (Poly).,His research shows how studying a diversity of animals leads to the discovery of general principles which inspire the design of novel circuits, artificial muscles, exoskeletons, versatile scampering legged search-and-rescue robots and synthetic self-cleaning dry adhesives based on gecko feet. He is passionate about discovery-based education leading to innovation -- and he even helped Pixar’s insect animations in the film A Bug's Life.
Stephen, Burt,Why people need poetry,Poetry critic,Closecallswithnonsense.com,,“Few doubt that Burt's opinions help dictate who becomes part of the canon.” — New York Times Magazine,
Dan, Gilbert,The psychology of your future self,Psychologist, happiness expert,www.danielgilbert.com/,,Dan Gilbert believes that, in our ardent, lifelong pursuit of happiness, most of us have the wrong map. In the same way that optical illusions fool our eyes -- and fool everyone's eyes in the same way -- Gilbert argues that our brains systematically misjudge what will make us happy . And these quirks in our cognition make humans very poor predictors of our own bliss. The premise of his current research -- that our assumptions about what will make us happy are often wrong -- is supported with clinical research drawn from psychology and neuroscience. But his delivery is what sets him apart. His engaging -- and often hilarious -- style pokes fun at typical human behavior and invokes pop-culture references everyone can relate to. This winning style translates also to Gilbert's writing, which is lucid, approachable and laugh-out-loud funny . The immensely readable Stumbling on Happiness , published in 2006, became a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 20 languages. In fact, the title of his book could be drawn from his own life. At 19, he was a high school dropout with dreams of writing science fiction. When a creative writing class at his community college was full, he enrolled in the only available course psychology. He found his passion there, earned a doctorate in social psychology in 1985 at Princeton, and has since won a Guggenheim Fellowship and the Phi Beta Kappa teaching prize for his work at Harvard. He has written essays and articles for The New York Times, Time and even Starbucks , while continuing his research into happiness at his Hedonic Psychology Laboratory .,“Gilbert's elbow-in-the-ribs social-science humor is actually funny. ... But underneath the goofball brilliance, [he] has a serious argument to make about why human beings are forever wrongly predicting what will make them happy.” — New York Times Book Review
Ray, Kurzweil,Get ready for hybrid thinking,Inventor, futurist,kurzweilai.net,,Inventor, entrepreneur, visionary, Ray Kurzweil's accomplishments read as a startling series of firsts -- a litany of technological breakthroughs we've come to take for granted. Kurzweil invented the first optical character recognition (OCR) software for transforming the written word into data, the first print-to-speech software for the blind, the first text-to-speech synthesizer, and the first music synthesizer capable of recreating the grand piano and other orchestral instruments, and the first commercially marketed large-vocabulary speech recognition. Yet his impact as a futurist and philosopher is no less significant. In his best-selling books, which include How to Create a Mind , The Age of Spiritual Machines , The Singularity Is Near When Humans Transcend Biology , Kurzweil depicts in detail a portrait of the human condition over the next few decades, as accelerating technologies forever blur the line between human and machine.,In 2009, he unveiled Singularity University , an institution that aims to assemble, educate and inspire leaders who strive to understand and facilitate the development of exponentially advancing technologies. He is a Director of Engineering at Google, where he heads up a team developing machine intelligence and natural language comprehension.
Sting,Sting,How I started writing songs again,Composer, singer, author, actor, activist,Sting.com,,Premiering in 2014, The Last Ship— with direction by Joe Mantello, music and lyrics by Sting and book by John Logan and Brian Yorkey—is inspired by Sting's memories of the English seafaring community of Wallsend where he was born and raised. The story is set against the demise of the local shipbuilding industry and is anchored by a group of unemployed workers who take back the shipyard to build one last ship. The constant throughout Sting's enduring career has been his propensity to evolve. From his tenure as lead singer and bassist with The Police, producing classic hits like Every Breath You Take and Message In A Bottle, to his acclaimed ventures as a solo artist, Sting is one of the world's most renowned and distinctive musicians.,An actor, composer, author and committed activist, Sting, along with wife Trudie Styler, founded the Rainforest Fund in 1989 to protect the world's rainforests and the indigenous people living there. This year, the organization celebrates its 25th anniversary.
Stephen, Friend,The hunt for unexpected genetic heroes,Open-science advocate,sagebase.org,,While working for Merck, Stephen Friend became frustrated by the slow pace at which big pharma created new treatments for desperate patients. Studying shared models like Wikipedia, Friend realized that the complexities of disease could only be understood -- and combated -- with collaboration and transparency, not by isolated scientists working in secret with proprietary data,In his quest for a solution, Friend co-founded Sage Bionetworks, an organization dedicated to creating strategies and platforms that empower researchers to share and interpret data on a colossal scale -- as well as crowdsource tests for new hypotheses.
Kitra, Cahana,A glimpse of life on the road,Vagabond photojournalist + conceptual artist,KitraCahana.com,,Kitra Cahana is a wanderer. The American-born photographer was raised in Canada and Sweden, with a father who worked as a rabbi and took his family along with him everywhere he traveled. Cahana's itinerant childhood is evident in her work, which has taken her to teenage rainbow parties, Venezuelan spiritual rituals , Ukranian Ultra-Orthodox prayer sites , American boxcars and bus stops and many more places. The 2014 TED Fellow embeds herself in the societies she documents, playing the part of photojouralist as well as enthnographer.,
Jon, Mooallem,How the teddy bear taught us compassion,Writer,jonmooallem.com,,What do we see when we look at wild animals -- do we respond to human-like traits, or thrill to the idea of their utter unfamiliarity? Jon Mooallem's book, Wild Ones , examines our relationship with wild animals both familiar and feral, telling stories of the North American environmental movement from its unlikely birth, and following three species who've come to symbolize our complicated relationship with whatever nature even means anymore.,Mooallem has written about everything from the murder of Hawaiian monk seals, to Idahoan utopians, to the world’s most famous ventriloquist, to the sad, secret history of the invention of the high five. A recent piece,  American Hippopotamus , was an Atavist story on, really, a plan in 1910 to jumpstart the hippopotamus ranching industry in America.
Sebastian, Junger,Why veterans miss war,Journalist and documentarian,www.sebastianjunger.com/,,Sebastian Junger thundered onto the media landscape with his non-fiction book, The Perfect Storm . A correspondent for Vanity Fair and ABC News, Junger has covered stories all across the globe, igniting a new interest in non-fiction. One of his main interests war.,From 2007 to 2008, Junger and photographer Tim Hetherington embedded with the 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team in Afghanistan. They spent intensive time with the soldiers at the Restrepo outpost in the Korengal Valley, which saw more combat than any other part of Afghanistan. The experience became Junger's book WAR , and the documentary Restrepo , which was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary in 2011.
Wes, Moore,How to talk to veterans about the war,Author and advocate,theotherwesmoore.com/,,Wes Moore grew up in Maryland in the early '80s and, after his father passed away when he was 3-years-old, he started acting up. Eventually, at age 13, his mother sent him away to military school. This turned out to be a life-changing experience. He adjusted well to the rigid order and took off academically, going on to study International Relations at Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship.,In his first book—the bestseller The Other Wes Moore —he takes a hard look at how his life might have unfolded. He does this by interviewing a man who shares his name and had a similar upbringing, but who is serving life in prison for the murder of a Baltimore police officer. It's a beautifully-told tale that shows how lives pivot on circumstance. Moore donates a portion of the book's proceeds to charities focused on empowering America's youth.
Chris, Kluwe,How augmented reality will change sports ... and build empathy,Punter and author,www.rollingstone.com/.../chris-kluwe,,,
Andrew, Solomon,How the worst moments in our lives make us who we are,Writer,AndrewSolomon.com,,Andrew Solomon's 2012 book, Far From the Tree Parents, Children, and the Search for Identity , tells the stories of parents who not only learn to deal with their exceptional children, but also find profound meaning in doing so. Solomon’s startling proposition is that diversity is what unites us. He writes about families coping with deafness, dwarfism, Down syndrome, autism, schizophrenia, multiple severe disabilities, with children who are prodigies, who are conceived in rape, who become criminals, who are transgender. Their struggles toward compassion and the triumphs of love -- so very different, yet sharing profound common links -- are documented in every chapter.,Woven into these courageous and affirming stories is Solomon’s journey to accepting his own identity, which culminated in his midlife decision, influenced by this research, to become a parent. Solomon’s previous book, The Noonday Demon An Atlas of Depression, won the 2001 National Book Award for nonfiction.
Jackie, Savitz,Save the oceans, feed the world!,Ocean advocate,https//www.ted.com/speakers/jackie_savitz,,Jackie Savitz is the Vice President for US Oceans at Oceana, an organization focused on conserving and saving the world's oceans. With a background in marine biology and environmental toxicology, she has worked at Oceana for more than a decade and has produced campaigns focused on sea-affecting hazards such as climate change, mercury, and cruise ship pollution.,Ocean water runs in Jackie's blood. She earned her bachelor’s degree in marine science and biology from the University of Miami, and then went on to get her master's in environmental science from the Chesapeake Biological Laboratory at the University of Maryland. That led her to spend some five years working to protect Chesapeake Bay, before working at ocean-focused groups such as Coast Alliance, a network of over 600 American organizations working to protect the coasts from pollution and development.
Simon, Sinek,Why good leaders make you feel safe,Leadership expert,startwithwhy.com,,Fascinated by the leaders who make impact in the world, companies and politicians with the capacity to inspire, Simon Sinek has discovered some remarkable patterns in how they think, act and communicate. He wrote Start With Why How Great Leaders Inspire Everyone to Take Action to explore his idea of the Golden Circle, what he calls a naturally occurring pattern, grounded in the biology of human decision making, that explains why we are inspired by some people, leaders, messages and organizations over others. His newest work explores  circles of safety , exploring how to enhance feelings of trust and confidence in making bold decisions. It's the subject of his latest book, Leaders Eat Last .,An ethnographer by training, Sinek is an adjunct of the RAND Corporation. He writes and comments regularly for major publications and teaches graduate-level strategic communications at Columbia University.
Rives,Rives,The Museum of Four in the Morning,Performance poet, multimedia artist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rives,,Part poet, part storyteller, part philosopher, Rives is the co-host of TEDActive as well as a frequent TED speaker. On stage, his poems burst in many directions, exposing multiple layers and unexpected treats childhood memories, grown-up humor, notions of love and lust, of what is lost forever and of what's still out there waiting to unfold. Chimborazo .,A regular on HBO's Def Poetry Jam , Rives also starred alongside model Bar Refaeli in the 2008 Bravo special Ironic Iconic America , touring the United States on a roller coaster ride through the eye-popping panorama of American pop culture. Flat pages can't contain his storytelling, even when paper is his medium. The pop-up books he creates for children unfold with surprise The Christmas Pop-Up Present expands to reveal moving parts, hidden areas and miniature booklets inside.
Tristram, Wyatt,The smelly mystery of the human pheromone,Zoologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/tristram_wyatt,,Tristram Wyatt wants to understand the messages that animals send with their smell. At Oxford, he researches the intersection of pheromone evolution and animal behavior, particularly in mammals. He's interested in the distinction between pheromones, the chemical signals a species produces, and each individual's signature mixture of distinct molecules. The zoologist has discovered some surprising biological coincidences along the way — like the fact that Asian elephants have the same female sex pheromones as 140 species of moths.,Wyatt is the author of Pheromones and Animal Behavior .
Kevin, Briggs,The bridge between suicide and life,Golden Gate guardian,pivotal-points.com,,“Since 1994, through sheer compassion and expert listening skills, Sgt. Briggs has helped convince more than 200 people on the precipice of death not to take their lives.” — People, Oct. 3, 2013,
Deborah, Gordon,What ants teach us about the brain, cancer and the Internet,Ecologist,www.drdeborahmd.com/,,Ecologist Deborah M. Gordon has learned that ant colonies can work without central control by using simple interactions like how often the insects touch antennae. Contrary to the notion that colonies are organized by efficient ants, she has instead discovered that evolution has produced “noisy” systems that tolerate accident and respond flexibly to the environment. When conditions are tough, natural selection favors colonies that conserve resources.,Her studies of ant colonies have led her and her Stanford colleagues to the discovery of the “Anternet,” which regulates foraging in ants in the same way the internet regulates data traffic. But as she said to Wired in 2013, Insect behavior mimicking human networks ... is actually not what’s most interesting about ant networks. What’s far more interesting are the parallels in the other direction What have the ants worked out that we humans haven’t thought of yet? Her latest exploration How do ants behave in space ?
William, Black,How to rob a bank (from the inside, that is),Academic,law.umkc.edu,,William Black is an associate professor of economics and law. He was the executive director of the Institute for Fraud Prevention from 2005-2007. He previously taught at the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin and at Santa Clara University, where he was also the distinguished scholar in residence for insurance law and a visiting scholar at the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics. Black was litigation director of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, deputy director of the FSLIC, SVP and general counsel of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, and senior deputy chief counsel, Office of Thrift Supervision. He was deputy director of the National Commission on Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement.,His 2005 book The Best Way to Rob a Bank Is to Own One has been called “a classic.” Professor Black recently helped the World Bank develop anti-corruption initiatives and served as an expert for OFHEO in its enforcement action against Fannie Mae’s former senior management.
Mark, Ronson,How sampling transformed music,Music producer and DJ,MarkRonson.co.uk,,Mark Ronson’s unusual path into the music world has led to an eclectic and multifaceted resume. Ronson began his career DJing hip New York City nightclubs in the heady 1990s. Since then, he’s scored his own hits with the help of Ghostface Killah and Amy Winehouse via his own first two albums Here Comes The Fuzz and Version , winning the Brit Award for best British male sole artist in 2008.,As a producer, Mark has helped create chart-topping albums for Adele, Lily Allen and Bruno Mars (nominated for 2014 Record of the Year for Locked out of Heaven ), and won three Grammys for his work on Amy Winehouse's album Back to Black . 2010’s Record Collection featured collaborations with Duran Duran, Boy George, D'Angelo, Q-Tip and MNDR. Mark is the Global Ambassador for Arms Around The Child.
Randall, Munroe,Comics that ask what if?,Cartoonist,xkcd.com,,One of a small group of professional web cartoonists, math obsessive and chronic explainer Randall Munroe dazzles the online world (and racks up millions of monthly page views) with the meaninglessly-named (and occasionally heartbreaking) webcomic xkcd . Munroe’s blog What If? specializes in cunning answers to, as the Atlantic put it, the kinds of of wonderful and fanciful hypotheticals that might arise when the nerdily inclined get together in bars, like “How fast can you hit a speed bump while driving and live ?” or “What would happen if a hair dryer with continuous power was turned on and put in an airtight 1x1x1 meter box?” As he told Math Horizons , I really enjoy solving these kinds of things, and it’s a bonus if I realize that I can put boxes around it and make it a comic.,“Xkcd [sic], a webcomic peopled with lovestruck stick figures, revels in the human side of geekdom ... Xkcd isn't an acronym, but in some ways, the comic is itself a language -- a way for people who are unpracticed at talking about their emotions to articulate them.” — Wired, November 13, 2007
Stanley, McChrystal,The military case for sharing knowledge,Military leader,jackson.yale.edu,,With a remarkable record of achievement, General Stanley McChrystal has been praised for creating a revolution in warfare that fused intelligence and operations. A four-star general, he is the former commander of U.S. and international forces in Afghanistan and the former leader of Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), which oversees the military’s most sensitive forces. McChrystal’s leadership of JSOC is credited with the December 2003 capture of Saddam Hussein and the June 2006 location and killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq. McChrystal, a former Green Beret, is known for his candor. After McChrystal graduated from West Point, he was commissioned as an infantry officer, and spent much of his career commanding special operations and airborne infantry units. During the Persian Gulf War, McChrystal served in a Joint Special Operations Task Force and later commanded the 75th Ranger Regiment. He completed year-long fellowships at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1997 and in 2000 at the Council on Foreign Relations. In 2002, he was appointed chief of staff of military operations in Afghanistan. Two years later, McChrystal was selected to deliver nationally televised Pentagon briefings about military operations in Iraq. From 2003 to 2008, McChrystal commanded JSOC and was responsible for leading the nation’s deployed military counter-terrorism efforts around the globe. He assumed command of all International Forces in Afghanistan in June 2009. President Obama’s order for an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan was based on McChrystal’s assessment of the war there. McChrystal retired from the military in August 2010.,“One of America’s greatest warriors.” — Secretary of Defense Robert Gates
Marco, Tempest,And for my next trick, a robot,Techno-illusionist,marcotempest.com,,Marco Tempest’s imaginative combination of computer-generated imagery, quick-cut video and enthusiastic stage presence has earned him a place in the pantheon of great illusionists. At 22, the Swiss magician won the New York World Cup of Magic, launching him into international prominence. His lively phonecam postings on YouTube , done without post-production and video-editing tricks to astonished people on the street, get millions of views. At the MIT Media Lab , Tempest is researching the link between magic and technology as a Director's Fellow.,Through his art, Tempest creates a highly entertaining way to be entranced by the reality-bending tech magic that surrounds us all every day. Watch more Marco magic courtesy of Scobleizer ... or see Marco profiled on CNN.com's Next List .
Mellody, Hobson,Color blind or color brave?,Investment expert,arielinvestments.com,,Mellody Hobson handles strategic planning for the Chicago-based Ariel Investments , one of the largest African-American-owned money management firms in the United States. Beyond her work at Ariel, Hobson has become a nationally recognized voice on financial literacy and investor education. She is a regular contributor and analyst on finance, the markets and economic trends for CBS News, contributes weekly money tips on the Tom Joyner Morning Show and writes a column for Black Enterprise magazine. As a passionate advocate for investor education, she is a spokesperson for the Ariel/Hewitt study, 401(k) Plans in Living Color and the Ariel Black Investor Survey, both of which examine investing patterns among minorities. Hobson is chair of the board for DreamWorks Animation. Her community outreach includes serving as chairman of After School Matters, providing Chicago teens with high quality out-of-school-time programs.,
Sarah, Jones,What does the future hold? 11 characters offer quirky answers,Polymorphic playwright,sarahjonesonline.com/,,Chameleon-like barely describes the astonishing ease with which Sarah Jones slips in and out of the characters in her solo performances -- as many as fourteen personae in her Broadway hit Bridge & Tunnel. Critics marvel not only at her ability to perfectly mimic accents and mannerisms, but also to seemingly reshape her body, down to pupils and dimples, in the blink of an eye.,Jones' performances showcase a biting political awareness, and she has received commissions from Equality Now, the Kellogg Foundation and the National Immigration Forum to address issues of injustice and inequality. She is a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador and has given multiple performances at the White House at the invitation of President and First Lady Obama. Jones is now at work on a new solo show called Sell/Buy/Date, commissioned by the Novo Foundation. She debuted material from it at TED2015. She is also working on a commission for Lincoln Center Theater and a television project based on her characters.
Gavin, Schmidt,The emergent patterns of climate change,Climate scientist,www.giss.nasa.gov/staff/gschmidt/,,“It is expected that there will be discrepancies between models and observations. However, why these arise and what one should conclude from them are interesting and more subtle than most people realize. Indeed, such discrepancies are the classic way we learn something new.” — Gavin Schmidt on RealClimate.org,
Andrew, Bastawrous,Get your next eye exam on a smartphone,Eye surgeon, inventor,www.peekvision.org/,,Andrew Bastawrous is a Kenya-based ophthalmologist who co-founded PEEK , a low-cost smartphone ophthalmic tool. PEEK was built to deliver eye care in some of the world's most challenging places, to those who need it most. Bastawrous is a research fellow at the International Centre for Eye Health.,Andrew has worked in Sierra Leone, Peru, Belize, Sri Lanka, Madagascar and Uganda and is based in Kenya working on the collaborative development and testing of Peek. In 2011, Andrew was awarded a Medical Research Council (MRC) and Fight for Sight Fellowship to undertake the first longitudinal population-based study (follow-up study) of eye disease in Africa and the challenges he faced inspired the idea of a smartphone-based ophthalmic tool. He has published some 25 peer-reviewed articles focusing on international eye health and mobile technology in healthcare and has co-authored four book chapters. Andrew was awarded the MRC Max Perutz Science writing Award in 2012 and is a TED Fellow.
David, Epstein,Are athletes really getting faster, better, stronger?,Sports science reporter,thesportsgene.com/,,“I recommend this book generally to sports fans, but more importantly this book should also be read by people who are broadly interested in how an individual’s biology interacts with their behavior (training), their environment, and their culture.” — Dr. Mike Joyner, Mayo Clinic,
Wendy, Chung,Autism — what we know (and what we don’t know yet),Geneticist,Sfari.org,,Wendy Chung is the director of clinical research at the Simons Foundation Autism Research Initiative, which does both basic and applied science to serve people affected by autism spectrum disorders. She's the principal investigator of the foundation's Simons Variation in Individuals Project, which characterizes behavior and brain structure and function in participants with genetic copy number variants such as those at 16p11.2, which are believed to play a role in spectrum disorders. Chung also directs the clinical genetics program at Columbia University. In assessing and treating kids with autism spectrum disorders and intellectual disabilities, she uses advanced genomic diagnostics to explore the genetic basis of neurological conditions. She thinks deeply about the ethical and emotional questions around genetic medicine and genetic testing.,“She has a humanistic philosophy that animates everything she does. ... She's not only thinking on all cylinders, but also feeling on all cylinders.” — Hamilton Cain, parent of a patient, author of This Boy’s Faith
Elizabeth, Gilbert,Success, failure and the drive to keep creating,Writer,elizabethgilbert.com,,Elizabeth Gilbert faced down a premidlife crisis by doing what we all secretly dream of -- running off for a year. Her travels through Italy, India and Indonesia resulted in the megabestselling and deeply beloved memoir Eat, Pray, Love , about her process of finding herself by leaving home. She's a longtime magazine writer -- covering music and politics for Spin and GQ -- as well as a novelist and short-story writer. Her books include the story collection Pilgrims , the novel Stern Men (about lobster fishermen in Maine) and a biography of the woodsman Eustace Conway, called The Last American Man . Her work has been the basis for two movies so far ( Coyote Ugly , based on her own tale of working at the famously raunchy bar in New York City), and Eat, Pray, Love , with the part of Gilbert played by Julia Roberts. Not bad for a year off.,In 2010, Elizabeth published Committed , a memoir exploring her ambivalent feelings about the institution of marriage. And her 2013 novel, The Signature of All Things , is a sprawling tale of 19th century botanical exploration.
James, Patten,The best computer interface? Maybe ... your hands,Interaction designer,pattenstudio.com,,James Patten is an interaction designer, inventor and visual artist working at the intersection of the physical and digital worlds. Patten is a TED Fellow and the founder and principal of the design firm Patten Studio, where his clients have included Björk , Barneys New York, General Electric, Steelcase and Autodesk. Patten earned his doctorate at the MIT Media Lab where he studied in the Tangible Media Group under Hiroshi Ishii. His work has been exhibited or performed in venues such as the Museum of Modern Art, the Transmediale festival in Berlin, the Museo Guggenheim Bilbao and the Ars Electronica Center in Linz, Austria. Patten's work has been recognized in several international design competitions including the International Design Magazine's Annual Design Review, and the International Design Excellence Awards. Tour his Brooklyn workshop .,
Hamish, Jolly,A shark-deterrent wetsuit (and it's not what you think),Inventor, ocean swimmer,sharkmitigation.com,,Hamish Jolly is an ocean swimmer and kitesurfer who's committed to creating sustainable businesses through innovation management, business development, business management, program management, investment analysis and finance. In 2006, Jolly was listed in Western Australian Business News' 40 Under 40 business leaders. Formerly Director of Strategy and Ventures at BankWest, Jolly was responsible for group strategy and mergers and acquisitions. He is a qualified Chartered Accountant and fulfils a number of Board positions including Botanic Gardens and Parks Authority Board of Management (Kings Park). He most recently consulted as the Chief Executive Officer of Greening Australia, Australia’s largest environmental not-for-profit organisation and formerly a Director of Ajilon, where he was part of the leadership team for one of the top-3 management and technology consulting firms in Western Australia.,
Michel,Laberge,How synchronized hammer strikes could generate nuclear fusion,Plasma physicist,www.generalfusion.com/,,“One can ask why General Fusion might succeed where others failed. The reason I think is that General Fusion is seizing on a unique opportunity when government programs are fully committed to supporting NIF and ITER... General Fusion has chosen the middle ground, harking back to the LINUS project 30 years ago but never tested.” — T. Kenneth Fowler, Former Associate Director, Fusion, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory,
Sarah, Lewis,Embrace the near win,Writer,sarahelizabethlewis.com,,Curator and critic Sarah Lewis has emerged as a cultural powerhouse for her fresh perspectives on the dialogue between culture, history, and identity. In 2010, she co-curated the groundbreaking SITE Santa Fe biennial, a platform celebrating artists melding the “ homespun and the high-tech .” She has served on Obama’s National Arts Policy Committee, and as a curatorial advisor for Brooklyn’s high-profile Barclays Center.,Her debut book The Rise analyzes the idea of failure, focusing on case studies that reveal how setbacks can become a tool enabling us to master our destinies. As she says “The creative process is actually how we fashion our lives and follow other pursuits. Failure is not something that might be helpful, it actually is the process.” -- Art21.org ,
Matthew, Carter,My life in typefaces,Type designer,www.carterandcone.com/,,MacArthur Fellow Matthew Carter started his career as a punchcutter, a print artisan who physically carves each letter into metal. He had already designed several legendary typefaces (in 1975, he created Bell Centennial for use in phone books) when he stepped into the digital design ring. As part of a project undertaken for Microsoft, Carter created early and successful examples of screen type emphasizing clarity and ease of long-term viewing, including the familiar Verdana, Galliard and Georgia. A recent work is MS Sitka, a family of digital fonts that are built to be readable at many sizes in print and onscreen.,Print and online publications such as Sports Illustrated, Newsweek, Wired and the Washington Post have all commissioned Carter fonts, leading Microsoft's typography blog to call him the person who shapes the way we read about the world.
Jeremy, Kasdin,The flower-shaped starshade that might help us detect Earth-like planets,Planet finder,https//www.ted.com/speakers/jeremy_kasdin,,“A flower-shaped spacecraft may help scientists see Earth-like alien worlds like never before. Called a starshade, the huge, sunflower-like spacecraft would deploy to its full size in space, blocking the light of distant stars so that a space-based telescope can image exoplanets in orbit around the stars. With this technology, researchers could directly image other worlds and potentially find long sought-after Earth twins, a historically difficult task for alien planet hunters.” — Huffington Post,
Norman, Spack,How I help transgender teens become who they want to be,Endocrinologist,www.healthgrades.com,,Norman Spack is a pediatric endocrinologist at Boston's Children Hospital and the co-founder of the hospital's Gender Management Service clinic. Created in 2007, the clinic remains one of the few in the world that treats minors with hormone replacement therapy.,Spack began working with college-aged transgender patients professionally in 1985, but found that once patients had reached adulthood, it was extremely difficult to treat their sexually mature bodies using hormone therapy. When parents of transgender children began seeking him out through online support groups, Spack started to think about possible treatments for patients in their youth, before puberty has permanently changed their bodies. Since then Spack has spoken widely on pediatric hormone therapy and has campaigned for law reform in several states to protect transgender people against hate crimes and discrimination.
Jennifer, Senior,For parents, happiness is a very high bar,Writer,www.jennifersenior.com/bio/,,,“'All Joy and No Fun' captures the complex texture of parents' lives, the joys and the sorrows, highs and lows, with remarkable insight, intelligence, sensitivity, and subtlety.” — Alison Gopnik
David, Brooks,Should you live for your résumé ... or your eulogy?,Columnist,NYTimes.com,,Writer and thinker David Brooks has covered business, crime and politics (as well as subbing in as the Wall Street Journal 's movie critic) over a long career in journalism. He's an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times in a legendary run that started in September 2003.,His column looks deeply into the social currents that underpin American life. He's the author of Bobos in Paradise The New Upper Class and How They Got There and On Paradise Drive How We Live Now (And Always Have) in the Future Tense . His most recent book, The Social Animal , examines new findings in brain science in the context of a story about two successful people whose lives unfold in ways that neurological research is helping us understand more deeply.
Gabby, Giffords,Be passionate. Be courageous. Be your best.,Former U.S. Representative and NASA astronaut, survivors,americansforresponsiblesolutions.org/,,For nearly 15 years, Gabby Giffords has dedicated herself to public service. As the youngest woman ever elected to the Arizona State Senate, she represented her community in the Arizona Legislature from 2000-2005, and then in US Congress from 2006-2012. In Congress, Gabby represented a diverse area that covers 9,000 square miles including a 114-mile border with Mexico. She quickly became a leading champion of border security, energy independence, and the needs of military families and veterans. She was consistently ranked as one of the most centrist legislators in Congress.,In 2007, Giffords married Mark Kelly, a Naval aviator who flew 39 combat missions in Operation Desert Storm and NASA astronaut. Mark flew his first of four missions in 2001 aboard Space Shuttle Endeavour, the same space shuttle that he commanded on its final flight in May 2011. He has also commanded Space Shuttle Discovery and is one of only two individuals who have visited the International Space Station on four different occasions.
David, Sengeh,The sore problem of prosthetic limbs,Biomechatronics engineer,Sengeh.com,,David Sengeh was born and raised in Sierra Leone, where more than 8,000 men, women and children had limbs amputated during a brutal civil war. He noticed that many people there opted not to wear a prosthesis because proper fit is such an issue.,Sengeh has pioneered a new system for creating prosthetic sockets, which fit a prothesis onto a patient's residual limb. Using MRI to map the shape, computer-assisted design to predict internal strains and 3D printing to allow for different materials to be used in different places, Sengeh is creating sockets that are far more comfortable than traditional models. These sockets can be produced cheaply and quickly, making them far more likely to help amputees across the globe.
Louie, Schwartzberg,Hidden miracles of the natural world,Filmmaker,movingart.com,,Louie Schwartzberg's career spans feature films, television shows, commercials and documentaries. His film Wings of Life , narrated by Meryl Streep, was released by Disneynature in April 2013, and his most recent film, Mysteries of the Unseen World , is a National Geographic 3D Imax that journeys into invisible worlds that are too slow, too fast, too small and too vast for the human eye to see.,Schwartzberg founded Moving Art to use the power of media to inspire and entertain through television programming, DVD products, and full-length motion picture and Imax films. His art is about breaking barriers, connecting with audiences, and telling stories that celebrate life and reveal the mysteries and wisdom of nature, people and places. Several of his film shorts have gone viral, including “Gratitude” and “Beauty of Pollination” with 36MM+ web views, and spawned related media (books, webinars, and more). Custom Ultra HD Moving Art pieces created by Schwartzberg can also be found in high-end hospitality venues around the world starting in 2014. For Schwartzberg, the greatest satisfaction is creating works that can have a positive effect on the future of the planet. “I hope my films inspire and open people’s hearts. Beauty is nature’s tool for survival – you protect what you love. If I can move enough people on an emotional level, I hope we can achieve the shift in consciousness we need to sustain and celebrate life.”
Christopher, Emdin,Teach teachers how to create magic,Education pioneer,ChrisEmdin.com,,,
Amanda ,Burden,How public spaces make cities work,Urban planner,bloombergassociates.com,,With a keen eye for detail that extends to the most humble park bench -- and a gift for convincing developers and bureaucrats of her vision -- former New York City Planning Commissioner Amanda Burden rebuilt New York City.,Taking inspiration from her mentor, the influential urban theorist William H. “Holly” Whyte, Burden stepped out of the society pages (she's Babe Paley's daughter) and into a high-profile development career, which started with the planning and design of Battery Park and brought her to the Bloomberg administration. Her high design standards and flair for human-scale public spaces (as she told the Wall Street Journal , You can actually change a city by a small stroke) ensures that her legacy will be an enduring element of New York’s urban landscape. Post-mayoralty, she is joining Mike Bloomberg's newly established global consultancy, Bloomberg Associates, as one of the founding Principals (along with Janette Sadik-Khan , former traffic commisioner).
Lawrence, Lessig,The unstoppable walk to political reform,Legal activist, rootstrikers.org,,Lawyer and activist Lawrence Lessig spent a decade arguing for sensible intellectual property law, updated for the digital age. He was a founding board member of Creative Commons , an organization that builds better copyright practices through principles established first by the open-source software community.,In 2007, just after his last TED Talk , Lessig announced he was leaving the field of IP and Internet policy, and moving on to a more fundamental problem that blocks all types of sensible policy -- the corrupting influence of money in American politics.
Jennifer, Golbeck,The curly fry conundrum Why social media “likes” say more than you might think,Computer scientist,jengolbeck.com/,,Jennifer Golbeck is an associate professor in the College of Information Studies at the University of Maryland, where she also moonlights in the department of computer science. Her work invariably focuses on how to enhance and improve the way that people interact with their own information online. I approach this from a computer science perspective and my general research hits social networks, trust, web science, artificial intelligence, and human-computer interaction, she writes.,Author of the 2013 book, Analyzing the Social Web , Golbeck likes nothing more than to immerse herself in the inner workings of the Internet tools so many millions of people use daily, to understand the implications of our choices and actions. Recently, she has also been working to bring human-computer interaction ideas to the world of security and privacy systems.
Gates,Bill and Melinda Gates,Why giving away our wealth has been the most satisfying thing we've done,Philanthropist,gatesfoundation.org,,Bill Gates is the founder and former CEO of Microsoft. A geek icon, tech visionary and business trailblazer, Gates' leadership -- fueled by his long-held dream that millions might realize their potential through great software -- made Microsoft a personal computing powerhouse and a trendsetter in the Internet dawn. Whether you're a suit, chef, quant, artist, media maven, nurse or gamer, you've probably used a Microsoft product today. In summer of 2008, Gates left his day-to-day role with Microsoft to focus on philanthropy. Holding that all lives have equal value (no matter where they're being lived) , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has now donated staggering sums to HIV/AIDS programs, libraries, agriculture research and disaster relief -- and offered vital guidance and creative funding to programs in global health and education. Gates believes his tech-centric strategy for giving will prove the killer app of planet Earth's next big upgrade.,Read a collection of Bill and Melinda Gates' annual letters , where they take stock of the Gates Foundation and the world. And follow his ongoing thinking on his personal website, The Gates Notes . His new paper, The Next Epidemic, is published by the New England Journal of Medicine.
Allan, Adams,The discovery that could rewrite physics,Theoretical physicist,turbulent.lns.mit.edu,,Allan Adams is a theoretical physicist working at the intersection of fluid dynamics, quantum field theory and string theory. His latest work uses the physics of black holes to study turbulence in quantum liquids. He is currently working on disorder in many-body systems and pondering the duality between 2d gauge theories and topological 4-manifolds. Adams earned his AB from Harvard, his MA from Berkeley and his PhD from Stanford before spending three years at Harvard as a Junior Fellow. In 2006, Adams moved to MIT where he is currently an Associate Professor in the Department of Physics and CTP.,“Having grown up as a string theorist, Adams is now excited about the application of stringy ideas to superconductivity and the physics of disordered materials.” — Story Collider
Geena, Rocero,Why I must come out,Model and activist,genderproud.com/,,As Cameron Russell puts it, professional models are people who have won the genetic lottery, born with the DNA for long legs, great skin and dazzling smiles. The advertising industry presents these gorgeous folks as idealized versions of ourselves to sell us clothes, makeup, cars. But behind the fabulousness, there's always an interesting story.,Born in Manila, Geena Rocero moved to New York in 2005 to pursue a modeling career. Signed to Next Models, she has worked with Rimmel Cosmetics, Hanes, and many other fashion and beauty companies. Through her own experience into womanhood, she realized her bigger purpose in life was to share her journey and work towards justice and beauty.
Hugh, Herr,The new bionics that let us run, climb and dance,Bionics designer, BiOM.com,,Hugh Herr directs the Biomechatronics research group at the MIT Media Lab, where he is pioneering a new class of biohybrid smart prostheses and exoskeletons to improve the quality of life for thousands of people with physical challenges. A computer-controlled prosthesis called the Rheo Knee, for instance, is outfitted with a microprocessor that continually senses the joint's position and the loads applied to the limb. A powered ankle-foot prosthesis called the BiOM emulates the action of a biological leg to create a natural gait, allowing amputees to walk with normal levels of speed and metabolism as if their legs were biological.,Herr is the founder and chief technology officer of BiOM Inc. , which markets the BiOM as the first in a series of products that will emulate or even augment physiological function through electromechanical replacement. You can call it (as they do) personal bionics.
Del, Harvey,Protecting Twitter users (sometimes from themselves),Security maven,www.delbius.com/,,At Twitter, Del Harvey works to ensure user safety and security, balancing Twitter's wide-open spaces against spammers, harassers and worse, to create a workable policy that lets the tweets flow. Prior to joining the booming social media site, she spent five years as the law enforcement liaison for a group fighting child exploitation, where she worked with agencies ranging from local police departments to the FBI, US Marshals and the Secret Service.,As Twitter grows, its ever inventive users (who famously came up with many of its key features by themselves) are finding ever new ways to overshare, offend and pick on others. Harvey and team's challenge is to weed out the worst while keeping the site feeling like a safe place to have this new kind of conversation we're all having there now.
Ed, Yong,Zombie roaches and other parasite tales,Science writer,edyong.flavors.me/,,Whether he's exploring a possible resurrection for extinct mouth-birthing amphibians or skewering media misunderstandings of hyped hormones like oxytocin, Ed Yong has a gift for illuminating the beauty (or controversy) in difficult and complex topics.,The award-winning blog Not Exactly Rocket Science (hosted by National Geographic ) is the epicenter of Yong’s formidable web and social media presence. In its posts, he tackles the hottest and most bizarre topics in science journalism. As he says, “The only one that matters to me, as far as my blog is concerned, is that something interests me. That is, excites or inspires or amuses me.” When not blogging, he also finds time to contribute to Nature , Wired , Scientific American and many other web and print outlets.
Bran, Ferren,To create for the ages, let's combine art and engineering,Technology designer,appliedminds.com/,,After dropping out of MIT in 1970, Bran Ferren became a designer and engineer for theater, touring rock bands, and dozens of movies, including Altered States and Little Shop of Horrors , before joining Disney as a lead Imagineer, then becoming president of R&D for the Walt Disney Company.,In 2000, Ferren and partner Danny Hillis left Disney to found Applied Minds, a playful design and invention firm dedicated to distilling game-changing inventions from an eclectic stew of the brightest creative minds culled from every imaginable discipline.
Ziauddin, Yousafzai,My daughter, Malala,Education activist,malalafund.org,,Ziauddin Yousafzai is an educator, human rights campaigner and social activist. He hails from Pakistan's Swat Valley where, at great personal risk among grave political violence, he peacefully resisted the Taliban's efforts to shut down schools and kept open his own school. He also inspired his daughter, Malala Yousafzai, to raise her voice to promote the rights of children to an education. Ziauddin is the co-founder and serves as the Chairman of the Board for the Malala Fund.,He also serves as the United Nations Special Advisor on Global Education and also the educational attaché to the Pakistani Consulate in Birmingham, UK.
Larry, Page,Where’s Google going next?,CEO of Google,google.com,,Larry Page and Sergey Brin met in grad school at Stanford in the mid-'90s, and in 1996 started working on a search technology based on a new idea that relevant results come from context. Their technology analyzed the number of times a given website was linked to by other sites — assuming that the more links, the more relevant the site — and ranked sites accordingly. In 1998, they opened Google in a garage-office in Menlo Park. In 1999 their software left beta and started its steady rise to web domination.,Beyond the company's ubiquitous search, including AdSense/AdWords, Google Maps, Google Earth and the mighty Gmail. In 2011, Page stepped back into his original role of chief executive officer. He now leads Google with high aims and big thinking, and finds time to devote to his projects like Google X, the idea lab for the out-there experiments that keep Google pushing the limits.
Richard, Ledgett,The NSA responds to Edward Snowden’s TED Talk,Deputy director, NSA,www.nsa.gov,,Richard Ledgett began his NSA career in 1988 and has served in operational, management, and technical leadership positions at the branch, division, office, and group levels. Now, think of him as the COO of the NSA, guiding and directing studies, operations and policy. From 2012 to 2013 he was the Director of the NSA/CSS Threat Operations Center, responsible for round-the-clock cryptologic activities to discover and counter adversary cyber efforts. Prior to NTOC he served in several positions from 2010 to 2012 in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence in both the collection and cyber mission areas. He was the first National Intelligence Manager for Cyber, serving as principal advisor to the Director of National Intelligence on all cyber matters, leading development of the Unified Intelligence Strategy for Cyber, and coordinating cyber activities across the Intelligence Community (IC). Previous positions at NSA include Deputy Director for Analysis and Production (2009-2010), Deputy Director for Data Acquisition (2006-2009), Assistant Deputy Director for Data Acquisition (2005-2006), and Chief, NSA/CSS Pacific (2002-2005). He also served in a joint IC operational activity, and as an instructor and course developer at the National Cryptologic School.,He led the NSA Media Leaks Task Force from June 2013 to January 2014, and was responsible for integrating and overseeing the totality of NSA’s efforts surrounding the unauthorized disclosures of classified information by a former NSA affiliate.
Charmian, Gooch,My wish To launch a new era of openness in business,Anti-corruption activist,GlobalWitness.org,,Charmian Gooch co-founded watchdog NGO Global Witness with colleagues Simon Taylor and Patrick Alley in 1993 in response to growing concerns over covert warfare funded by illicit trade in timber and other industries. Since then, Global Witness has captured headlines for their exposé of “blood diamonds” in Uganda, minerals in the Congo and illegal timber trade between Cambodia and Thailand, and more. With unique expertise on the shadowy threads connecting corrupt businesses and governments, Global Witness continues their quest to uncover and root out the sources of exploitation and conflict. As they said to the Daily Telegraph  Consumers have a right to know what they're buying, and what was done to obtain it.,In 2014 Gooch was awarded the TED Prize (as well as the $1 million Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship). Her Prize wish to know who owns and controls companies, to change the law, and to launch a new era of openness in business.
Chris, Hadfield,What I learned from going blind in space,Astronaut,ChrisHadfield.ca,,“Good morning, Earth.” That is how Colonel Chris Hadfield, writing on Twitter, woke up the world every day while living aboard the International Space Station. In his five months on the ISS (including three as commander) Hadfield became a worldwide sensation, using social media to make outer space accessible and infusing a sense of wonder into the collective consciousness. Check out his cover version of David Bowie's Space Oddity, sung while floating in his tin can, far above the world ... Now back on our home planet, he continues to share the excitement of science and space travel. He's the author of the 2014 book An Astronaut's Guide to Life on Earth . As he says, There are no wishy-washy astronauts. You don't get up there by being uncaring and blasé. And whatever gave you the sense of tenacity and purpose to get that far in life is absolutely reaffirmed and deepened by the experience itself. A photography geek, in 2014 he also published an album of his photos from the shuttle You Are Here Around the World in 92 Minutes .,Hadfield is also a font of Canadian firsts He was Canada’s first shuttle mission specialist, and the first Canadian to board a Russian spacecraft (he helped build the Mir ), do a spacewalk (he's done two), and of course, to command the International Space Station.
Edward, Snowden,Here's how we take back the Internet,Whistleblower,https//www.freesnowden.is/,,Edward Snowden was just about to turn 28 when his face was suddenly splashed across every major newspaper in the US. In the summer of 2013 The Guardian published a series of leaked documents about the American National Security Agency (NSA), starting with an article about a secret court order demanding American phone records from Verizon, followed by an article on the NSA's top-secret Prism program, said to be accessing user data from Google, Apple and Facebook.,It wasn't long before Snowden came forward as the source, revealing that he had carefully planned the leak, copying documents when he was working as a contractor for the NSA. I understand that I will be made to suffer for my actions, he said at the time, but I will be satisfied if the federation of secret law, unequal pardon and irresistible executive powers that rule the world that I love are revealed even for an instant. Snowden's actions have led to a global debate on the relationship between national security and online privacy. His leaks continue to have a lasting impact on the American public's view of the government, and has encouraged media scrutiny on the NSA.
Daniel, Reisel,The neuroscience of restorative justice,Neuroscientist,danreisel.com,,Daniel Reisel grew up in Norway but settled in the UK in 1995. He works as a hospital doctor and as a research fellow in epigenetics at University College London. He completed his PhD in Neuroscience in 2005, investigating how learning rewires the brain. Since then, his research has been concerned with the effect of life events on gene function. Daniel is currently training to become an accredited restorative justice facilitator with the UK Restorative Justice Council.,“An important contribution to how crime should be tackled.” — Simon Fried on TED.comSteven, Pinker ,The long reach of reason,Linguist,stevenpinker.com,,Steven Pinker's books have been like bombs tossed into the eternal nature-versus-nurture debate. Pinker asserts that not only are human minds predisposed to certain kinds of learning, such as language, but that from birth our minds -- the patterns in which our brain cells fire -- predispose us each to think and behave differently.,His deep studies of language have led him to insights into the way that humans form thoughts and engage our world. He argues that humans have evolved to share a faculty for language, the same way a spider evolved to spin a web. We aren't born with “blank slates” to be shaped entirely by our parents and environment, he argues in books including The Language Instinct , How the Mind Works , and The Blank Slate The Modern Denial of Human Nature .
Carin, Bondar,The birds and the bees are just the beginning,Wild sex biologist,carinbondar.com,,Group sex, prostitution, masturbation -— every sexy thing we humans do, says Carin Bondar, animals do too, and a whole lot more we, thank goodness, can't (see topic chastity belts). Bondar, a biologist, hosts the truly astonishing Wild Sex video series on earthtouch.tv , where over two seasons she's been using science and uberwatchable storytelling to tell surprising tales of animal mating. As she says We hit topics hard, and not just for the quirk factor, but because there is a lot of cool science behind so many strange mating rituals.,For contrast, her first book, The Nature of Human Nature, examines the unique behaviors of the human species in the context of Darwin's Survival of the Fittest. Bondar is also the host and producer of SciAm Cinema, a monthly series of the best stories from the Scientific American blog network, and the co-host (with Phil Plait) of TwiST, a weekly series about science and tech on the Science Alert YouTube channel, as well as a TV host for Discovery International and National Geographic Wild.
Toby, Shapshak,You don't need an app for that,Technology writer,stuff.co.za,,Casual readers of Stuff magazine, with its smart and provocative gadget reviews, might not know the glossy comes from not London or New York but offices in South Africa. Toby Shapshak leads the magazine and news site, he's been called the most high-profile technology journalist in the country by GQ South Africa. Formerly a senior newspaper reporter covering everything from crime to politics, Shapshak shadowed Nelson Mandela when he was president, and covered the work of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission after the abolition of apartheid.,He's been writing about innovation, telecommunications and the Internet — and the impact they have on people's lives — for more than 15 years. He's now working on a book about a passionately held belief that in Africa, necessity is the mother of innovation.
Anne-Marie, Slaughter,Can we all have it all?,Public policy thinker,https//www.ted.com/speakers/anne_marie_slaughter,,Anne-Marie Slaughter has served as the Dean of Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, and was the first female Director of Policy Planning for the US Department of State. In late 2013 she left Princeton to assume the presidency of the New America Foundation. With her husband, Slaughter has also raised two sons. And she is on the record saying that integrating her remarkably high-powered career and motherhood was doable when she had the flexibility to control her own schedule, but impossible once she was no longer her own boss.,In a 2012 article for the Atlantic that became the magazine’s most-read ever, Slaughter dismantles the recently-popularized notion that women who fail to “have it all” lack the ambition to do so. Instead, she argues that the way most top jobs are structured, including the expectations of workers regardless of gender, uphold slavish devotion to work above family life or other passions. Creating a more flexible work environment would benefit not just individual women and men, but society as a whole. It is unacceptable, she argues, that a desire to spend time with one’s family should be cause for shame.
Clayton, Cameron,A-rhythm-etic. The math behind the beats,Drummer,www.claytoncameron.net/,,Clayton Cameron holds a unique title Brush Master. That's because this percussionist prefers brushes to sticks, and has spent his career perfecting the art of brush technique. Cameron grew up in Los Angeles and started drumming at a young age on empty oatmeal boxes. After college, he moved to Las Vegas, where he was hired as the drummer for Sammy Davis Jr.'s big band. It would be Sammy's tap dancing night after night that would inspire my brush playing, says Cameron.,During his tenure with Sammy Davis Jr., Cameron played with Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra. And, after moving to New York, he struck up a longterm friendship with Tony Bennett, and spent 15 years touring with the master. Cameron recorded 15 albums with Bennett, including his Grammy-winning Tony Bennett Unplugged .
Ajit, Narayanan,A word game to communicate in any language,Visual grammar engine inventor,avazapp.com/freespeech,,Ajit Narayanan is the founder and CEO of Invention Labs , and the inventor of Avaz AAC, the first assistive device aimed at an Indian market that helps people with speech disabilities -- such as cerebral palsy, autism, intellectual disability, aphasia and learning disabilities -- to communicate. Avaz is also available as an iPad app, aimed at children with autism. In 2010, Avaz won the National Award for Empowerment of People with Disabilities from the president of India, and in 2011, Narayanan was listed in MIT Technology Review 35 under 35 . Narayanan is a prolific inventor with more than 20 patent applications. He is an electrical engineer with degrees from IIT Madras. His research interests are embedded systems, signal processing and understanding how the brain perceives language and communication.,“A brilliant idea which is worth sharing!!” — Pavan Kumar P N on TED.comManu, Prakash,A 50-cent microscope that folds like origami,Physicist, inventor,www.foldscope.com,,An assistant professor of bioengineering at Stanford University, Manu Prakash is a physicist working at the molecular scale to try and understand no less than how the world really works. As he told BusinessWeek in 2010, he is humbled and inspired by nature’s own solutions to the world's biggest problems. I build and design tools to uncover how and why biological systems so often outsmart us. ??I believe one day we will be able to understand the physical design principles of life on Earth, leading to a new way to look at the world we live in.,Born in Meerut, India, Prakash earned a BTech in computer science and engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur before moving to the United States. He did his master’s and PhD in applied physics at MIT before founding the Prakash Lab at Stanford.
Gabe, Barcia-Colombo,My DNA vending machine,Video sculptor, gabebc.com,,Gabe Barcia-Colombo is an American artist who creates installation pieces that both delight and point to the strangeness of our modern, digital world. His latest work is a DNA Vending Machine, which dispenses vials of DNA extracted from friends at dinner parties. He's also created video installations of miniature people encased inside ordinary objects like suitcases, blenders and more. His work comments on the act of leaving one's imprint for the next generation. Call it artwork with consequences.,As he explains it While formally implemented by natural history museums and collections (which find their roots in Renaissance-era 'cabinets of curiosity'), this process has grown more pointed and pervasive in the modern-day obsession with personal digital archiving and the corresponding growth of social media culture. My video sculptures play upon this exigency in our culture to chronicle, preserve and wax nostalgic, an idea which I render visually by 'collecting' human beings (alongside cultural archetypes) as scientific specimens. I repurpose everyday objects like blenders, suitcases and cans of Spam into venues for projecting and inserting videos of people.
Christopher, Soghoian,Government surveillance — this is just the beginning,Privacy researcher + activist,dubfire.net,,Christopher Soghoian is a champion of digital privacy rights, with a particular focus on the role that third-party service providers play in enabling governments to monitor its citizens. As the principal technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union, he monitors the intersection of federal surveillance and citizen's rights.,Before joining the ACLU, he was the first-ever technologist for the Federal Trade Commision's Division of Privacy and Identity Protection, where he worked on investigations of Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and Netflix. Soghoian is also the creator of Do Not Track , an anti-tracking device that all major web browsers now use.
Philip, Evans,How data will transform business,Consultant,www.philip-evans-estates.co.uk/,,Since the 1970s, business strategy has been dominated by two major theories Bruce Henderson's idea of increasing returns to scale and experience and Michael Porter's value chain. But now decades later, in the wake of web 2.0, Philip Evans argues that a new force will rule business strategy in the future -- the massive amount of data shared by competing groups.,Evans, a senior partner and managing director at the Boston Consulting Group, is the co-author of Blown to Bits , about how the information economy is bringing the trade-off between richness and reach to the forefront of business. Evans is based in Boston.
Mary, Lou Jepsen,Could future devices read images from our brains?,Screen engineer,www.maryloujepsen.com/,,Mary Lou Jepsen is the head of the Display Division at Google [x]. Previously she has founded or co-founded 4 different startups and served as the CTO or CEO at all of them. In 2005, with Nicholas Negroponte, she co-founded One Laptop per Child (OLPC) to build affordable computers for the world’s poorest children. As CTO she invented, architected and delivered to high-volume production a machine that the titans of technology believed was impossible to make. Dr. Jepsen then founded Pixel Qi Corp. in 2008 in an attempt to transform a broken display component industry into an innovation engine. In the past she has been a professor at MIT, the CTO of Intel's Display Division and a globe-trotting high-tech media artist. She has been ranked in the top 50 female computer scientists of all time, and Time Magazine inducted her into its Time 100 as one of the 100 most influential people in the world.,“Jepsen is known among her friends as the light lady for her work with computer imaging. But the kind of light she's shedding goes far beyond the screen.” — Time, April 30, 2009,Annette Heuser,The 3 agencies with the power to make or break economies,Rating agency reformer,https//www.ted.com/speakers/annette_heuser,,Credit rating agencies, with their power to downgrade credit ratings for entire nations, have come under intense scrutiny and recent events have put their acceptance and transparency into question. What if there was an alternative, free from the limitations and weakened legitimacy that encumbers the big three agencies?,Annette Heuser, executive director of the Washington branch of the German Bertelsmann Foundation, has created a blueprint for a new, non-profit solution to loosen the agencies’ iron grip. The International Nonprofit Credit Rating Agency (INCRA) would conduct unsolicited foreign-risk assessments, redefining sovereign ratings as a public good, and could dramatically shift the financial futures of the world.
Henry, Lin,What we can learn from galaxies far, far away,Student scientist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/henry_lin,,Henry Lin studies the very hot, very large and very strange -- that is, distant galaxy clusters. (Obviously.) Lin, who matriculated at Harvard University in the fall of 2013, thinks we can learn a lot about astrophysics by studying these giant celestial bodies. In early 2013 he won the Intel Foundation Young Scientist Award , the second-highest award at the Intel Science Fair, for his models of far-away galaxies. Lin is a graduate of Caddo Magnet High School in Shreveport, Louisiana.,
Michael, Metcalfe,We need money for aid. So let’s print it.,Financial expert,http//www.johnmetcalfe.co.uk/,,Financial whiz Michael Metcalfe runs cross-asset strategy at State Street Global Markets. His research focuses on how ?the behavior of investors and online retailers? can help with investment decisions. He develops tools to help analyze markets, and regularly advises portfolio managers from some of the world’s largest pension and hedge funds.,An economist and macro strategist who has covered both developed and emerging markets, Metcalfe is a regular go-to for the financial press. He recently spoke to the Financial Times about the state of the yen and to the Boston Globe about investor confidence. He was also a contributor to “ The Road to International Financial Stability ” — a study on economic development published by the Overseas Development Institute.
Catherine, Bracy,Why good hackers make good citizens,Hacker, community manager,cbracy.tumblr.com/,,At Code for America, Catherine Bracy oversees the nonprofit's community network-building initiatives, including its volunteer program and international partnership program. A resident of Oakland, California, herself, she is preoccupied with bringing together local governments and technologists in a concerted effort to make better cities for everyone.,Until the end of 2012, she ran the Obama campaign's technology office in San Francisco. She also worked on outreach for Tech4Obama, the campaign's technology affinity group. Previously, she worked at the Knight Foundation where she managed the 2011 News Challenge to fund digital innovation in journalism.
Siddharthan, Chandran,Can the damaged brain repair itself?,Regenerative neurologist,www.ccbs.ed.ac.uk,,Multiple sclerosis (MS) affects the nervous system by chewing up the axons that connect neurons to one another, which slows, stops or simply randomizes the transmission of nerve impulses. At the Centre for clinical brain sciences at the University of Edinburgh, Siddharthan Chandran works in the emerging discipline of regenerative neurology -- exploring how injured or damaged neurons in the brain might actually be repaired. His research strategy uses MS and motor neuron disease (ALS, or Lou Gehrig's diesease) as primary disease models, combining laboratory and clinical activity to study brain injury, neurodegeneration and repair, using stem cells to model and test. His work, he says, reflects the complexity of the brain. You can replace a kidney, but not a brain. One must remain careful and humble in the face of current knowledge. He is also director of the Anne Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic.,“Chandran's crusade against Multiple Sclerosis got a boost when author J K Rowling, the creator of the Harry Potter series, gifted £10 million to the centre he co-directs.” — Times of India
Ash, Beckham,We're all hiding something. Let's find the courage to open up,Equality advocate,ashbeckham.com,,Ash Beckham is no stranger to hard conversations. In her work, she shares how coming out as a lesbian helped her appreciate our common humanity and better understand the hardships that we all face. This equality advocate mixes personal experience and wisdom to help everyone bravely face their demons.,
Christopher, Ryan,Are we designed to be sexual omnivores?,Psychologist,hrisryanphd.com/,,In the fascinating book Sex at Dawn , Christopher Ryan and co-author Cacilda Jethá, MD, explore how humans' prehistoric promiscuity (perhaps similar to the bonobos ') may have influenced our current attitudes toward pair-bonding, monogamy and long-lasting passion. Their thesis draws on evidence from anthropology, archeology, primatology, anatomy and psychosexuality.,As a psychologist, Ryan’s research focuses on trying to distinguish the human from the cultural. His book, he hopes, is pointing toward a more optimistic future illuminated by our innate capacities for love, cooperation and generosity.
Roselinde, Torres,What it takes to be a great leader,Leadership expert,www.rosalindatorres.com/,,Roselinde Torres is a senior partner and managing director at the consulting firm, BCG. A senior leader in the firm’s people and organization practice area, she is also the company's resident expert on leadership, a topic she has studied her entire career.,Questions she likes to ask include, what innovative methods can help prepare the next generation of leaders? and how do we enable leaders to unlearn past modes and habits of success?
Molly, Stevens,A new way to grow bone,Biomaterials researcher,www.mollystevensvisualart.com/,,At Imperial College London, Molly Stevens heads a highly multidisciplinary research group that designs bioactive materials for regenerative medicine and biosensing. It's fundamental science with an eye to practical applications as healthcare products.,Among the products from her lab an engineered bone, cardiac tissue suitable for use in transplants, and disease-sensing nanoparticle aggregates that change color in the presence of even tiny quantities of cancer-related enzymes, making early sensing possible. As Stevens told The Lancet  It's right down at the nanoscience level. It's really exciting stuff, but it actually results in something very tangibly useful.
Yann, Dall'Aglio,Love — you're doing it wrong,Philosopher,https//www.ted.com/speakers/yann_dall_aglio,,Philosopher Yann Dall'Aglio writes about love in the digital age. His two books, A Rolex at 50 Do you have the right to miss your life? and I love you Is love a has been? explore the challenges and triumphs in the modern era, where individualism and consumerism reign. His work is a declaration of his faith in love, a major feat for a skeptical philosopher.,
Rupal, Patel,Synthetic voices, as unique as fingerprints,Speech scientist,VocaliD.org,,Northeastern University computer science professor Rupal Patel looks for ways to give voice to the voiceless. As founder and director of the Communication Analysis and Design Laboratory (CadLab), she developed a technology that combines real human voices with the characteristics of individual speech patterns. The result is VocaliD , an innovation that gives people who can't speak the ability to communicate in a voice all their own.,There's nothing better than seeing the person who's actually going to use it, seeing their reaction, seeing their smile, says Patel.
Chris, McKnett,The investment logic for sustainability,Sustainable investment champion,https//www.ted.com/speakers/chris_mcknett,,At State Street Global Advisors , Chris McKnett thinks deeply about how large investors, like banks, pension funds and endowments, can put their money in the right places -- not just for better business, but for a better world. In his role as the head of State Street Global Advisors' Environmental, Social and Governance Investing (ESG), McKnett develops sustainable-strategic products and integrates sustainability thinking directly into the investment process.,
Leyla, Acaroglu,Paper beats plastic? How to rethink environmental folklore,Sustainability strategist,leylaacaroglu.com,,Leyla Acaroglu breaks through our deeply entrenched environmental folklore in order to reveal the true impact of the products and materials we use every day. A designer and consultant, Acaroglu encourages both companies and individuals to look at the full life cycle of the things they create and use in order to understand their net effect on the environment. At Eco Innovators , an ecologically-minded Australian design studio, Acaroglu’s team makes award-winning designs and projects that tap into a sense of play in order to educate. From animations explaining the lifecycle of a cell phone to bookshelves made from construction scrap wood to workshops that help rebuild and repurpose broken everyday items, the goal is building savvy, science-based sustainability practices.,“Acaroglu’s suite of new creative projects not only hopes to redress what she calls the field’s “PR problem,” but engage and inspire.” — Dan Rule, The Age, March 19, 2011
David, Puttnam,Does the media have a duty of care?,Producer,davidputtnam.com,,David Puttnam spent thirty years as an independent producer of award-winning films, including The Mission, The Killing Fields, Local Hero, Chariots of Fire, Midnight Express, Bugsy Malone and Memphis Belle. His films have won ten Oscars, 25 Baftas and the Palme D'Or at Cannes.,He retired from film production in 1998 to focus on his work in public policy as it relates to education, the environment, and the creative and communications industries. In 1998 he founded the National Teaching Awards, which he chaired until 2008, also serving as the first Chair of the General Teaching Council from 2000 to 2002. From July 2002 to July 2009 he was president of UNICEF UK, playing a key role in promoting UNICEF’s advocacy and awareness objectives.
Aparna, Rao,Art that craves your attention,Artist,porsandrao.com,,With the clever use of technology, TED Fellow Aparna Rao creates art installations that let people experience familiar objects and interactions in refreshingly humorous ways. From her sound-sensative Pygmies to her 2-person Uncle Phone, Rao's work encourages participation rather than spectatorship. By combining high-tech and high-art, she imbues her creations with playful expression and quirky behaviors.,Rao studied at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad, India, and at Interaction Design Institute in Italy. In 2005 she partnered with Soren Pors and they've worked in collaboration ever since as Pors & Rao .
Alex, Wissner-Gross,A new equation for intelligence,Scientist, entrepreneur, inventor,AlexWG.org,,Alex Wissner-Gross is a serial big-picture thinker. He applies physics and computer science principles to a wide variety of topics, like human intelligence, climate change and financial trading.,Lately Wissner-Gross started wondering Why have we searched for so long to understand intelligence? Can it really be this elusive? His latest work posits that intelligence can indeed be defined physically, as a dynamic force, rather than a static property. He explains intelligence in terms of causal entropic forces, ultimately defining it as a force to maximize future freedom of action.
Teddy, Cruz,How architectural innovations migrate across borders,Architect and urbanist,estudioteddycruz.com/,,Teddy Cruz works at the crossroads of architecture, urbanism, policy and art. He has looked deeply, over many years, at the Tijuana-San Diego area spanning the US-Mexico border -- a thriving, high-density, high-activity zone of trade and urban relationships -- and at other southern cities. And he suggests that the modern, highly planned cities of the developed world have much to learn from these developments. The informal shops, garages and neighborhoods of a boomtown are built to maximize social flow -- because buildings are easy to put up and modify, they can respond exactly to the inhabitant's needs, connecting them to the community and the city.,In collaboration with community-based nonprofits such as Casa Familiar, Cruz and his team also explore new visions for affordable housing, in relationship to an urban policy more inclusive of social and cultural programs for the city. In 1991, Cruz received the Rome Prize in Architecture, in 2005 he was the first recipient of the James Stirling Memorial Lecture On The City Prize. Born in Guatemala, he is a professor in public culture and urbanism in the Visual Arts Department at University of California, San Diego.
Dan, Berkenstock,The world is one big dataset. Now, how to photograph it ...,Satellite designer,www.skyboximaging.com/company,,Dan Berkenstock is an entrepreneur and engineer from Chicago, who fell into a classic tale of Silicon Valley innovation while taking a graduate entrepreneurship course at Stanford. That class led him and some others to found Skybox Imaging, of which Berkenstock is now executive vice president and chief product officer.,Skybox's mission is simple, if bold they're working to design and launch small satellites that hitchhike to space in an effort to revolutionize the satellite imaging business. In 2013, SkySat-1, the first such satellite, was launched and is now beaming back images that are high-enough resolution to show the real-time state of global commerce. The idea to revolutionize the ways that consumers, businesses, and governments make decisions in their day-to-day lives.
Esta, Soler,How we turned the tide on domestic violence (Hint the Polaroid helped),Violence and abuse prevention expert,futureswithoutviolence.org,,Esta Soler has guided Futures Without Violence to become one of the world’s most effective advocacy organizations in the effort to recognize and prevent gender-based violence. The agency she founded 30 years ago provides education, policy development and training to reduce the prevalence of violence against women and children, and to care for its victims. When we started, there wasn't even the language for this, says Soler.,Futures Without Violence -- then called the Family Violence Prevention Fund -- lobbied for a decade to get the Violence Against Women Act passed in 1994. Congress upheld and expanded the law in 2000, 2005 and most recently in 2013. Today, Futures Without Violence has offices in San Francisco, Boston and Washington, D.C. -- but their vision is for a worldwide moment to end gender-based violence. Today, Soler is committed working with anti-violence activists around the world to pass the International Violence Against Women Act.
Maya, Penn,Meet a young entrepreneur, cartoonist, designer, activist …,Entrepreneur, animator, philanthropist ...,mayasideas.com/,,To sell her line of luscious knit scarves and eco-friendly hats, teenaged entrepreneur Maya Penn built and maintains her own retail website. (She started the business when she was 8.) She’s also an animator and a geek, and an eager evangelist of teaching kids of be entrepreneurs at any age. Bursting with ideas, she recently started a side nonprofit called Maya’s Ideas 4 The Planet.,“There's no 'slow' button on Maya Shea Penn.” — Sheila M, Poole, ajc.comNicolas, Perony,Puppies! Now that I’ve got your attention, complexity theory,Animal scientist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/nicholas_perony,,Nicolas Perony started his career as a roboticist. But after one of his robots -- which was designed to follow a white line -- destroyed itself because of a lighting snafu on demo day, he realized that he was less interested in creating complicated robots and more interested in studying the complexity that already exists out there in the animal kingdom. He quickly changed course and is now a quantitative scientist at the Chair of Systems Design at ETH Zurich, where he studies the structure and dynamics of animal societies.,Perony conducts his research by placing GPS collars on animals like Bechstein's bats and meerkats, and studying the spacial data of the group. He creates models of the movement over time to see patterns. He then tries to ascertain at the simple rules that individuals in the animal group seem to be following that, when done en masse, result in the larger flow. In other words, he looks at the underlying mechanics that lead to the collective movement of animal groups.
McKenna, Pope,Want to be an activist? Start with your toys,Teen activist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/mckenna_pope,,If anyone's still worried about today's teenagers melting their brains on the Internet, there's at least one who stands out against the crowd teen activist McKenna Pope. In 2012 Pope's four-year-old brother, who had a passion for cooking, was beyond excited to ask for an Easy-Bake Oven for Christmas. But, confused by the pink and purple colors and the television ads that only featured girls using the toy, he became discouraged.,Pope, thirteen at the time, was indignant that her brother should think any less of himself as a boy who liked to cook. Naturally Pope turned to the Internet. She posted a video and written petition urging the CEO of Hasbro to change its marketing and packaging around the Easy-Bake Oven to make it appealing to boys as well as girls. Pope could hardly anticipate what came next  She received 45,000 signatures and a call from Hasbro, inviting her to their headquarters in Pawtucket, Rhode Island to show her their new unisex designs.
Anne, Milgram,Why smart statistics are the key to fighting crime,VP criminal justice, Arnold Foundation,www.arnoldfoundation.org/,,Anne Milgram worked her way up the legal system, working as a criminal prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office and at the US Department of Justice. In 2007, she was appointed New Jersey’s Attorney General, when she found herself in charge of 21 prosecutors and some 30,000 law enforcement officers. It was there that she realized that the criminal justice system is broken, relying too often on individual instinct and insight and failing to make use of the reams of data that are generated every day.,Since then, Milgram has devoted herself to trying to fix this issue, both in New Jersey and now at the Arnold Foundation, where she is the vice president of criminal justice.
Anant, Agarwal,Why massive open online courses (still) matter,Education innovator,euryale.csail.mit.edu,,In the spring of 2012, Anant Agarwal, a professor of computer science at MIT, taught a course called “Circuits and Electronics.” As usual, it was MIT-level challenging, requiring knowledge of differential equations and calculus. Unlike in the past, though, the course enrolled 155,000 students from 162 countries around the world. It was the inaugural offering of what is now edX , an online learning venture of MIT and Harvard, which Agarwal helms. Through this nonprofit -- one of the leading forces of the massive open online course (MOOC) movement -- Agarwal aims to make higher education globally available, for free. Which does not preclude in-person education. On campus, Agarwal is pushing for what he calls blended courses, which interweave digital content and face-to-face interactions. I see online learning as a rising tide that will lift all boats,” Agarwal says.,Agarwal holds the Guinness World Record for the largest microphone array, and was named one of Forbes' top education innovators in 2012. Find him on Twitter at @agarwaledu .
Joe, Kowan,How I beat stage fright,Musician and graphic designer,craftygangsta.com,,Joe Kowan is a Boston-based musician and graphic designer who has been struggling with stage fright since he first started writing songs at age 27. Despite his adorably expressed fears, he charms audiences with his own style of quirky folk and acoustic hip-hop, by turns poignant, salacious and comical. In 2009 he released the gangsta' arts and crafts video for his original song “Crafty,” and in 2011 he was a finalist in the USA Songwriting Competition.,Kowan is a senior graphic designer on State Street Global Marketing’s Brand Strategy team. With a BFA in sculpture and design, his work explores diverse areas of design including scenic, print, environmental design and wayfinding.
Yves ,Morieux,As work gets more complex, 6 rules to simplify,Consultant,https//www.ted.com/speakers/yves_morieux,,Yves Morieux thinks deeply about what makes organizations work effectively. A senior partner in BCG’s Washington D.C. office and director of the BCG Institute for Organization, Morieux considers how overarching changes in structure can improve motivation for all who work there. His calls his approach Smart Simplicity. Using six key rules , it encourages employees to cooperate in order to solve long-term problems. It isn’t just about reducing costs and increasing profit -- it’s about maximizing engagement through all levels of a company. Morieux has been featured in articles on organizational evolution in Harvard Business Review , The Economist , The Wall Street Journal , Fast Company and Le Monde .,
Paula, Johnson,His and hers … healthcare,Women's-health expert,www.hsph.harvard.edu/paula.,,Ever think you were having a heart attack? It turns out that many of the well-known early symptoms, such as chest pain and pressure from left arm to jaw, are more typically experienced by men. Women are more likely to experience shortness of breath, unusual perspiration and abdominal discomfort. Dr. Paula Johnson was one of the first to ask big questions about women's experience of cardiac care -- and their access to care that meets their needs.,Johnson and her team at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston focus on mentoring, measuring and bringing together expertise from practicing clinicians and academics to improve women's health. She says One of our core responsibilities will be to address critical questions ... such as, 'How do sex and gender impact health and health outcomes?' and 'How can health disparities among different groups of women be eliminated?'
Shereen, El Feki,A little-told tale of sex and sensuality,Arab sexuality expert,sexandthecitadel.com,,Dividing her time between London and Cairo, TED Fellow Shereen El Feki works on issues related to health and social welfare in the Arab region -- including intimate attitudes toward sexual (and political) freedoms, as explored in her new book, Sex and the Citadel .,Half-Egyptian and half-Welsh, El Feki was brought up in Canada. She started her professional life in medical science, with a PhD in molecular immunology from the University of Cambridge, and later worked as healthcare correspondent at The Economist . She also is a former vice chair of the United Nations' Global Commission on HIV and Law. While she has worked in regional media as a presenter with the Al Jazeera Network, and continues to write on social issues in the Arab world, her passion lies in projects that aim to better understand, and surmount, the social challenges facing Arabs, particularly young people.
Guy, Hoffman,Robots with soul,Roboticist,guyhoffman.com,,As co-director of the IDC Media Invention Lab, Guy Hoffman researches robots with soul. He explores the humanity of robots -- how they think, feel, act, and move, as they interact with humans. He and his team staged the world’s first human-robot theater piece, as well as the first human-robot jazz duet , improv and all.,Hoffman’s work has been named one of TIME Magazine’s Best Inventions of the Year, and in 2010 and 2012, he was listed as one of Israel’s most promising researchers under 40.
Luke, Syson,How I learned to stop worrying and love useless art,Curator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/luke_syson,,Luke Syson joined the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2012 as the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Curator in Charge of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts. This year, he co-curated the small but innovative exhibition Plain or Fancy? Restraint and Exuberance in the Decorative Arts. Before joining the Met Syson was Curator of Italian Painting before 1500 and Head of Research at the National Gallery, London. While at the National Gallery, he was curator of the exhibition Renaissance Siena Art for a City, and in 2011 he organized the groundbreaking Leonardo da Vinci Painter at the Court of Milan.,Syson was also one of the curators who organized the acclaimed Enlightenment Gallery at The British Museum and was part of the team that planned the new galleries for Medieval and Renaissance Art at the Victoria & Albert Museum.
Sheryl, Sandberg,So we leaned in ... now what?,COO, Facebook,leanin.org/,,Long before Sheryl Sandberg left Google to join Facebook as its Chief Operating Of?cer in 2008, she was a fan. Today she manages Facebook’s sales, marketing, business development, human resources, public policy and communications. It’s a massive job, but one well suited to Sandberg, who not only built and managed Google’s successful online sales and operations program but also served as an economist for the World Bank and Chief of Staff at the US Treasury Department. Sandberg’s experience navigating the the complex and socially sensitive world of international economics has proven useful as she and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg work to strike a balance between helping Facebook users control privacy while ?nding ways to monetize its most valuable asset data.,At TEDWomen in 2010 Sandberg made the bold decision to talk about the experience of being one of very few women at the C-level of business. She noted that many women, in anticipating having a family, lean back from leading at work. After her TED Talk took off, Sandberg wrote the book Lean In , which has spent nearly a year on the New York Times Bestseller list. Sandberg plans to release a version of the book for graduates.
Mark, Kendall,Demo A needle-free vaccine patch that's safer and way cheaper,Biomedical engineer,www.markkendallartists.com/,,Looking a bit like a fuzzy computer chip, the Nanopatch uses tiny powder-coated spikes to deliver a small dose of vaccine just under the skin, immunizing a person in about a minute. Made for less than $1, it uses only a fraction of a vaccine dose delivered by traditional syringe method (which was invented in 1853), at the same time eliminating the risk of needle injuries. What’s more, a Nanopatch infused with vaccine is designed to be heat-stable, so it can be transported without refrigeration. And the process doesn't draw blood, reducing the risk of infections.,Mark Kendall, an Australian biomedical engineer, was part of a team at the University of Queensland that advanced the Nanopatch by vaccinating animals. Now his company, Vaxxas , is on a mission to commercialize the device for human use. He plans to run an international trial using the Nanopatch, starting with the human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine to protect against cervical cancer.
Harish, Manwani,Profit’s not always the point,COO, Unilever,www.livemint.com ,,Harish Manwani is a Unilever man through and through. Having joined the company in 1976, he imagined that his time would be taken up with selling soap and soup. Not so, his then-boss told him. You're here to change lives. It sounded far-fetched, but as the years went on and as he moved through the ranks of the corporation, Manwani began to understand his mentor's wisdom. Those words remain close to his heart even in his current role as the company's chief operating officer.,Now based in Singapore, Manwani graduated from Mumbai University and has a master's degree in management studies, he also attended the advanced management program at the Harvard Business School. He is the non-executive chairman of Hindustan Lever and a member of the executive board of the Indian School of Business.
Ryan, Holladay,To hear this music you have to be there. Literally,Musical artist,www.hrholladay.com,,TED Fellow, Ryan Holladay works with his brother as musicians and music producer, particularly focusing on projects where art and technology intersect. They've produced many site-specific audio-visual installations, engineered interactive concerts -- and most recently have become interested in creating location-aware music.,To date, they have composed pieces activated by the National Mall in Washington DC, Central Park in New York City and they're currently working on a piece inspired by Route One in California.
Frederic, Kaplan,How to build an information time machine,Digital humanities researcher,FKaplan.com,,Frederic Kaplan is the Digital Humanities Chair at Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL) and the EPFL's Digital Humanities Lab Director. Kaplan leads the lab in applying computation to humanities research. His latest project is the Venice Time Machine , a collaborative work archiving 80 kilometers of books from throughout 1000 years of Venetician history. The goal of the time machine is to create an information system which can be searched and mapped. Think of it as a Google Maps for time.,Kaplan holds a PhD in artificial intelligence from the University Paris VI. He lives in Switzerland.
Sandra, Aamodt,Why dieting doesn't usually work,Neuroscientist and science writer,www.sandraaamodt.com/,,Sandra Aamodt is a neuroscientist and science writer, who takes the complexities of neuroscience research and whips them into fun reads that give people a better understanding of their minds and behavior. Her books Welcome to Your Brain and Welcome to Your Child's Brain (both written with Sam Wang) are designed to bring neuroscience to a general audience, and they've both been widely translated. Aamodt's science writing has also appeared in The New York Times , The Washington Post , El Mundo and the Times of London .,From 2003 to 2008, Aamodt was the editor-in-chief of Nature Neuroscience , a leading scientific journal in the field of brain research. She brings a significant scientific background to the task of explaining new research without creating neurobunk. During her career, she has read over five thousand neuroscience papers, and written many editorials on science policy.
Roger ,Stein,A bold new way to fund drug research,Financial management expert,CanceRx.com,,Roger Stein is a senior lecturer in finance at MIT's Sloan School of Management and a research affiliate at the MIT Laboratory for Financial Engineering. He is also the former chief analytics officer at State Street Global Exchange. He has been working in risk modeling and financial prediction for almost 25 years, his products and services are used widely in industry and have become benchmarks in banking and finance. With MIT colleagues, he is currently collaborating on a new model that uses modern risk management methods and financial engineering techniques to change the way new drug research is funded.,Previously he was managing director of research and academic relations globally for Moody’s Corporation, and prior to that was president of Moody’s Research Labs. He has a Ph.D. from New York University, has coauthored two full-length texts on applied analytics, and has written more than 50 academic articles and papers. He has also been practicing Aikido since 1980.
Suzanne, Talhouk,Don't kill your language,Poet and language advocate,feilamer.org/ar,,Raised in war-torn Lebanon, Suzanne Talhouk has a masters in physics and a passion for poetry, she has released two collections of poems. Dismayed by what she saw as a lack of power during the recent war in the Middle East, Talhouk saw the Arabic language as medium to unite and empower the Arab world. She launched Feil Amer, an organization that aims to preserve the Arabic language, and to reinstate the pride in young Arabs towards their language.,
Maysoon, Zayid,I got 99 problems... palsy is just one,Comedian and writer,maysoon.com,,Early in her acting career, Maysoon Zayid realized she'd get a lot more stage time if she showed off how funny she was. As she told the BBC, It became very obvious to me that in the United States of America, a fluffy ethnic disabled chick was never going to get a job unless she did stand-up.,A Palestinian woman from New Jersey, Zayid jokes about her family, global culture, and her life with cerebral palsy. Along with Dean Obeidallah, she founded the New York Arab-American Comedy Festival, now in its 10th year. She spends several months of the year in the Palestinian Territories running workshops for disabled and orphaned kids in refugee camps, using art to help them deal with trauma. And yes -- if you're an Adam Sandler fan, you'll recognize Zayid as the woman behind the beauty-shop counter in You Don't Mess With the Zohan.
Mick, Cornett,How an obese town lost a million pounds,Mayor,www.tedmed.com/speakers/show?id=54384,,The world is noticing Oklahoma City’s renaissance and its mayor, Mick Cornett. His list of awards includes nods for urban design, health, sports and the arts. Newsweek called him one of the five most innovative mayors in the country. London-based World Mayors listed him as the No. 2 mayor in the world, and Governing magazine named him the Public Official of the Year. Best known for helping Oklahoma City attract an NBA franchise and putting Oklahoma City “on a diet,” Cornett also led the charge to pass MAPS 3, an innovative $800 million investment in parks, urban transit, wellness centers and infrastructure that will dramatically reshape Oklahoma City and enhance the quality of life of its residents.,
Diana, Nyad,Never, ever give up,Journalist, swimmer,diananyad.com,,For ten years (1969-1979), Diana Nyad was known as the greatest long-distance swimmer in the world. In 1979, she stroked the then-longest swim in history, making the 102.5-mile journey from the island of Bimini (Bahamas) to Florida. She also broke numerous world records, including what had been a 50-year mark for circling Manhattan Island, setting the new time of 7 hrs 57 min. She is a member of the National Women’s Hall of Fame and the International Swimming Hall of Fame.,At age 60, having not swum a stroke in decades, she began planning for her white whale of distance swims the 110-mile ocean crossing between Cuba and Florida. She'd tried it once, in her 20s, and severe jellyfish attacks had defeated her then. But now, with a strong team and a new commitment to her vision, she stepped back into the salt. She spoke about this second attempt at TEDMED 2011 . And at TEDWomen 2013, in December, she talks about how it feels to have finally done it.
Paul, Piff,Does money make you mean?,Social psychologist,paulpiff.wix.com/paulpiff,,Paul Piff is an Assistant Professor of Psychology and Social Behavior at the University of California, Irvine.? In particular, he studies how wealth (having it or not having it) can affect interpersonal relationships.,His surprising studies include running rigged games of Monopoly, tracking how those who drive expensive cars behave versus those driving less expensive vehicles and even determining that rich people are literally more likely to take candy from children than the less well-off. The results often don't paint a pretty picture about the motivating forces of wealth. He writes, specifically, I have been finding that increased wealth and status in society lead to increased self-focus and, in turn, decreased compassion, altruism, and ethical behavior.
Krista, Donaldson,The $80 prosthetic knee that's changing lives,Engineer,d-rev.org,,Prosthetic limbs are expensive and complex, and they must be fit to each individual -- yet having a replacement for a lost limb can mean the difference between working and not, having a social life and not. So, Krista Donaldson and her team at the nonprofit design firm, D-Rev, are attacking the problem on several fronts, from re-engineering the moving parts, to exploring way-new materials that replace expensive titanium, to forming deep local partnerships for distribution and maintenance around the world.,It's the kind of work that D-Rev does, with a mission to improve the health and incomes of people living on less than $4 per day, their motto is Design for the other 90%. Taking a truly user-centered approach that could be summarized as Listen before you build.
Andrew, Solomon,Depression, the secret we share,Writer,AndrewSolomon.com,,Andrew Solomon's 2012 book, Far From the Tree Parents, Children, and the Search for Identity , tells the stories of parents who not only learn to deal with their exceptional children, but also find profound meaning in doing so. Solomon’s startling proposition is that diversity is what unites us. He writes about families coping with deafness, dwarfism, Down syndrome, autism, schizophrenia, multiple severe disabilities, with children who are prodigies, who are conceived in rape, who become criminals, who are transgender. Their struggles toward compassion and the triumphs of love -- so very different, yet sharing profound common links -- are documented in every chapter.,Woven into these courageous and affirming stories is Solomon’s journey to accepting his own identity, which culminated in his midlife decision, influenced by this research, to become a parent. Solomon’s previous book, The Noonday Demon An Atlas of Depression, won the 2001 National Book Award for nonfiction.
Marco, Annunziata,Welcome to the age of the industrial internet,Economist,www.marcoannunziata.com/,,Marco Annunziata is the Chief Economist of General Electric, responsible for the global economic analysis that guides GE’s business strategy. A member of the European Central Bank's Shadow Council and of the European Council of Economists, Annunziata has been featured on Bloomberg, CNBC, and in The Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal .,Annunziata arrived at GE in 2011 with a long track record in the financial sector, previously working at Unicredit, Deutsche Bank and the International Monetary Fund, where he researched emerging markets and the Eurozone. Annunziata confesses that he is childishly proud of his first book, The Economics of the Financial Crisis (Palgrave MacMillan, 2011). The book traces the global fiscal crisis back to a failure of common sense, in which so many of us played a part, and offers guidance for learning the right lessons from the outcomes.
Toni, Griffin,A new vision for rebuilding Detroit,Place maker,detroitworksproject.com,,Toni Griffin is the Founding Director of the J. Max Bond Center on Design for the Just City at the City College of New York. In addition to her academic involvement, Griffin maintains an active private practice based in New York. Prior to returning to private practice, Griffin created a centralized division of planning and urban design for the City of Newark, New Jersey, and before that, worked on waterfront and neighborhood revitalization in Washington, D.C.,Griffin recently served as director of the Detroit Works Project , and in 2012 completed and released Detroit Future City , a comprehensive citywide framework plan for urban transformation.
Rose, George,Inside the secret shipping industry,Curious journalist,rosegeorge.com,,Rose George thinks, researches, writes and talks about the hidden, the undiscussed. Among the everyone-does-it-no-one-talks-about-it issues she's explored in books and articles sanitation (and poop in general). Diarrhea is a weapon of mass destruction, says the UK-based journalist and author, and a lack of access to toilets is at the root of our biggest public health crisis. In 2012, two out of five of the world’s population had nowhere sanitary to go.,The key to turning around this problem, says George Let’s drop the pretense of “water-related diseases” and call out the cause of myriad afflictions around the world as what they are -- “poop-related diseases” that are preventable with a basic toilet. George explores the problem in her book The Big Necessity The Unmentionable World of Human Waste and Why It Matters and in a fabulous special issue of Colors magazine called  Shit A Survival Guide . Read a sample chapter of The Big Necessity >>
Stephen, Cave,The 4 stories we tell ourselves about death,Philosopher,StephenCave.com,,Stephen Cave is a writer and philosopher who is obsessed with our obsession with immortality. In 2012 he published Immortality The Quest to Live Forever and How It Drives Civilization , an inquiry into humanity's rather irrational resistance to the inevitability of death. Cave moves across time and history's major civilizations and religions to explore just what drives this instinct -- and what that means for the future. Cave writes for The Financial Times and contributes to The New York Times , The Guardian and Wired .,
Eddy, Cartaya,My glacier cave discoveries,Cave Explorer,https//www.ted.com/speakers/eddy_cartaya,,Much of Eddy Cartaya's life takes place in caves. A ranger at Deschutes National Forest in Oregon, in charge of law enforcement and investigations, he solves crimes that happen in caves. This can range from investigating the theft of lava formations that date back 6,000 years to tracking down a group of people who covered over ancient cave art with spray paint.,Cartaya and his climbing partner, Brent McGregor, also explore the frozen, icy caves created in the Sandy Glacier as it slowly slides down Oregon's Mount Hood. In 2011, the pair identified and explored three caves which they named Snow Dragon, Pure Imagination and Frozen Minotaur. Together, the caves create 7,000 feet of passageway through the glacier. Experts think this may be the longest glacial cave system in the United States outside of Alaska.
Diébédo, Francis Kéré,How to build with clay... and community,Community-minded architect,www.kere-architecture.com/,,Diébédo Francis Kéré grew up in Gando, a small village in Burkina Faso. Having gone away to school, first within his country and then at the Technische Universität in Berlin, Germany, he resolved to give back to the community that raised him. He does that through the power of architecture.,Through his firm, Kéré Architecture, Kéré focuses on using local building materials and techniques in a modern way, to redefine and redesign the enviroment. In Burkina Faso, that means working predominantly with clay, and his innovative approach has seen the creation of remarkably beautiful, modern buildings that are entirely appropriate to the setting. His first building, a primary school in Gando, was completed in 2001 and received the Aga Khan Award for Architecture . Since then, he has designed other structures for the village, his other work there has also won multiple awards, including the Global Award , the BSI Swiss Architectural Award , the Marcus Prize and the Global Holcim Award Gold 2012 .
Boyd, Varty,What I learned from Nelson Mandela,Environmental and literacy activist,londolozi.com,,Everyone has felt that connection with nature. Through the Good Work Foundation, Boyd Varty is building a movement around it. The fourth-generation custodian of the Londolozi Game Reserve in South Africa calls it a psychology of restoration. “We would like to be pioneers of the age of restoration,” says Varty. “Restoration of land, people and the human spirit.,By providing environmental, English and computer education to the people who live and work in Londolozi, he’s also creating an economically and socially sustainable model for conservation.
Enrique, Peñalosa,Why buses represent democracy in action,Colombian politician, urban activist,enriquepenalosa.com,,Enrique Peñalosa sees urban transportation not as a matter of convenience and economics but as a matter of justice, of equality for every resident. In his own city of Bogata, Colombia, where he was mayor from 1998 to 2001, he proudly says that more than 350 km of protected bicycle ways have been created.,These days, Peñalosa works as a consultant on urban strategy, advising officials in cities all over the world on how to build a sustainable cities that can not only survive but thrive in the future. He is president of the board of directors of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy, an organization promoting sustainable and equitable transportation worldwide.
David, Lang,My underwater robot,Maker, OpenROV.com,,David Lang is a maker whose craving for adventure turned him into an amateur ocean explorer. A few years ago Lang and NASA engineer Eric Stackpole went looking for lost gold (literally) in an underwater cave in the foothills of the Sierra Navada. But they weren't quite sure how to go about it. Without much expertise (or money), the two put initial designs for an underwater robot explorer online. Soon OpenROV was born a community of citizen ocean explorers who build and constantly improve upon these small remote operated underwater robots.,Lang is also the author of Zero to Maker and a 2013 TED Fellow. He lives on a sailboat in the San Francisco Bay.
Sally, Kohn,Let’s try emotional correctness,Political pundit,www.sallykohn.com/,,Sally Kohn has a powerful vision for a more united United States. On Fox News, this progressive lesbian has sparred with some of the most conservative minds on television, and has sifted through hundreds of letters of hate mail a day. But she deeply believes in finding our common humanity, political differences aside. Before we can achieve political correctness, we must first establish emotional correctness — and this will ignite conversations that lead to real change.,Kohn has appeared on Fox, MSNBC and CNN, and has written for The Daily Beast, Salon, The Atlantic and TIME Magazine.
Geraldine, Hamilton,Body parts on a chip,Bio researcher,wyss.harvard.edu,,Geraldine Hamilton’s career spans from academic research to biotech start-ups to pharma. Her research focus has been on the development and application of human-relevant in-vitro models for drug discovery. She was one of the founding scientists, VP of Scientific Operations and Director of Cell Products, in a start-up biotech company (CellzDirect), that successfully translated and commercialized technology from academic research to supply the pharmaceutical industry with hepatic cell products and services for safety assessment and drug-metabolism studies.,Hamilton received her Ph.D. in cell biology/toxicology from the University of Hertfordshire (England) in conjunction with GlaxoSmithkline, followed by a post-doctoral research fellowship at the University of North Carolina. Her current research interests and prior experience include organs on-a-chip, toxicology and drug metabolism, liver cell biology, mechanisms regulating gene expression and differentiation, regulation of nuclear receptors and transcriptional activation in hepatocytes by xenobiotics, human cell isolation and cryopreservation techniques.
Toby, Eccles,Invest in social change,Social investment visionary,https//tobyecc.wordpress.com/,,All too often, an ex-inmate walks out of prison with the exact same problems he or she walked in with lack of skills, lack of support, no job. And they end up re-offending and back in jail. It's an expensive problem to fix, but it's a much more expensive one to ignore. A director at Social Finance in London, Toby Eccles explores the arbitrage between those two options.,In 2010, his pioneering Social Impact Bond allowed private investors to support a UK program targeting ex-prisoners who served short sentences (the limited government funding only goes to ex-inmates who served long terms). The £5m scheme, funded by 17 investors, supports training and support for 1,000 ex-inmates, if they re-offend less than a control group, the government will pay investors back, plus interest, through the savings accrued by achieving the program's targets.
David, Steindl-Rast,Want to be happy? Be grateful,Monk,Gratefulness.org,,Many first met Brother David Steindl-Rast through a viral video called  Nature. Beauty. Gratitude , where Louie Schwartzberg's footage of time-lapse flowers in bloom is narrated by Brother David's moving words asking us to simply be ... grateful. Since 1953, Brother David has been a monk of Mount Saviour Benedictine monastery in New York, dividing his time between hermitic contemplation, writing and lecturing. He's the cofounder of gratefulness.org , supporting ANG*L (A Network for Grateful Living).,He was one of the first Roman Catholics to participate in Buddhist-Christian dialogue, and is the author of The Ground We Share, a text on Buddhist and Christian practice, written with Robert Aitken Roshi. His other books include Gratefulness, the Heart of Prayer and Deeper Than Words . His most recent book is 99 Blessings , a series of prayers for the general reader -- whether people of faith, agnostics, or uncertain.
Suzana, Herculano-Houzel,What is so special about the human brain?,Neuroscientist,www.suzanaherculanohouzel.com/lab,,How many neurons make a human brain? For years, the answer has been (give or take) 100 billion. But neuroscientist Suzana Herculano-Houzel decided to count them herself. Her research approach involved dissolving four human brains (donated to science) into a homogeneous mixture -- in her lab at the Institute of Biomedical Sciences in Rio de Janeiro, they call it brain soup. She then took a sample of the mix, counted the number of cell nuclei belonging to neurons, and scaled that up. Result the human brain has about 86 billion neurons, 14 billion fewer than assumed -- but intriguingly, far more than other animals, relative to brain size.,She suggests that it was the invention of cooking by our ancestors -- which makes food yield much more metabolic energy -- that allowed humans to develop the largest primate brain. She's now working on elephant and whale brains to test her hypothesis.
Jared, Diamond,How societies can grow old better,Civilization scholar,www.jareddiamond.org/,,In his books Guns, Germs and Steel and Collapse (and the popular PBS and National Geographic documentaries they inspired), big-picture scholar Jared Diamond explores civilizations and why they all seem to fall. Now in his latest book, The World Until Yesterday , Diamond examines small, traditional, tribal societies -- and suggests that modern civilization is only our latest solution to survival. Diamond’s background in evolutionary biology, geography and physiology informs his integrated vision of human history. He posits that success -- and failure -- depends on how well societies adapt to their changing environment.,“Diamond eschews the grand canvas to offer an empathetic portrait of human survival and adaptability” — Publisher’s Weekly, Sept. 17, 2012
Peter, Doolittle,How your working memory makes sense of the world,Educational psychology professor,https//www.ted.com/speakers/peter_doolittle,,Peter Doolittle is a professor of educational psychology in the School of Education at Virginia Tech, where he is also the executive director of the Center for Instructional Development and Educational Research. He teaches classes such as Cognition and Instruction, Constructivism and Education, Multimedia Cognition and College Teaching, but his research mainly focuses on learning in multimedia environments and the role of working memory.,Doolittle has taught educational psychology around the world. He is the executive editor of the International Journal of Teaching and Learning in Higher Education and the co-executive editor of the International Journal of ePortfolio .
Andreas, Raptopoulos,No roads? There’s a drone for that,Airborne logistics activist, Matternet.com,,It's a modern-day truism that, in regions where the phone company never bothered to lay network cable, locals quickly adopted mobile phones -- and then innovated mobile services that go far beyond what so-called developed countries have. Could the same pattern hold true with roads?,Andreas Raptopoulos is hoping to find out with Matternet, a project that uses swarms of unmanned aerial vehicles to deliver urgent items -- think emergency and medical supplies -- to places where there are no driveable roads. Imagine a sort of flying bucket brigade or relay race, where autonomous quadricopters pass packages around a flexible network that behaves something like the internet -- but for real goods.
Henry, Evans and Chad Jenkins,Meet the robots for humanity,Robotics activist,www.henryevans.com/home.html,,At age 40, Henry Evans was left mute and quadriplegic after a stroke-like attack caused by a hidden birth defect. Years of therapy helped him learn to move his head and use a finger -- which allows him to use a head-tracking device to communicate with a computer using experimental interfaces.,Now, Evans is a frequent and enthusiastic collaborator with robotics teams who are developing tools to help the severely disabled navigate their lives. He collaborates with Georgia Tech professor Charlie Kemp on using the Willow Garage PR2 robot as a surrogate, as well as Chad Jenkins' RLAB at Brown on quadrotors for expanding range of motion.
Greg, Asner,Ecology from the air,Airborne ecologist,https//cao.carnegiescience.edu/,,The remote sensing techniques developed by Greg Asner and his team are viewed as among the most advanced in the world for exploring Earth’s changing ecosystems in unprecedented detail and richness. Using airborne and satellite technologies such as laser scanning and hyperspectral imaging, combined with field work and computer modeling, Asner measures and qualifies humans’ impact on regions from the American Southwest to the Brazilian Amazon.,“We’re able to see, if you will, the forest and the trees at the same time,” Asner says. “We’re able to now understand an image, map and measure huge expanses of the environment while maintaining the detail. Not just the spatial resolution, but the biological resolution—the actual organisms that live in these places.” For Asner, who is on the faculty at the Carnegie Institution and Stanford and leads the Carnegie Airborne Observatory project, this is science with a mission to influence climate change treaties and save the forests he studies.
Lian, Pin Koh,A drone's-eye view of conservation,Drones ecologist,lianpinkoh.com/,,Lian Pin Koh is a relentless tinkerer and science fiction movie geek, though most know him as an environmental scientist. His dreams of combining these interests led him to cofound, with colleague Serge Wich, the site ConservationDrones.org , a project dedicated to gathering intelligence on forests and wildlife through the use of low-cost unmanned flying machines.,Ground surveys are expensive, and are not conducted at a sufficient frequency. Furthermore, some remote tropical forests have never been really surveyed for biodiversity. Koh's machines have already collected valuable information in Sumatra, Congo, Gabon, and Madagascar.
Jane, McGonigal,Massively multi-player… thumb-wrestling?,Game Designer, janemcgonigal.com,,Jane McGonigal asks Why doesn't the real world work more like an online game? In the best-designed games, our human experience is optimized We have important work to do, we're surrounded by potential collaborators, and we learn quickly and in a low-risk environment. In her work as a game designer, she creates games that use mobile and digital technologies to turn everyday spaces into playing fields, and everyday people into teammates. Her game-world insights can explain--and improve--the way we learn, work, solve problems, and lead our real lives. She served as the director of game R&D at the Institute for the Future , and she is the founder of Gameful , which she describes as a secret headquarters for worldchanging game developers.,Several years ago she suffered a serious concussion, and she created a multiplayer game to get through it, opening it up to anyone to play. In “ Superbetter ,” players set a goal (health or wellness) and invite others to play with them--and to keep them on track. While most games, and most videogames, have traditionally been about winning, we are now seeing increasing collaboration and games played together to solve problems.
Stefan, Larsson,What doctors can learn from each other,Value-based health care advocate,ttps//www.ted.com/speakers/stefan_larsson,,In the developed world, health care represents 9 to 18 percent of the GDP -- and these costs are rising faster than economic growth. Stefan Larsson -- a senior partner and managing director in BCG’s Stockholm office, the global leader of BCG’s Health Care Payers and Providers sector, and a BCG Fellow since 2010 -- believes that the answer isn’t just managing costs, but improving patient outcomes.,The idea at the center of this approach registries of health outcomes. By coming up with criteria for measuring quality of care, sharing data on how procedures and parts are working, and learning from each other constantly, doctors and nurses can become agents of change, providing better care and lower costs at the same time.
Mohamed, Ali,The link between unemployment and terrorism,Human rights advocate,muhammadali.com/,,In urban hubs like Mogadishu, says Mohamed Ali, we're losing our brightest minds to terrorism and violence. Why not channel the energy of ambitious and eager young people toward innovation instead of destruction? Ali is doing his part to make this dream a reality. He is the Executive Director of the Iftiin Foundation , an organization that builds and supports young entrepreneurs to encourage a culture of change and innovation in Somalia and other post-conflict countries. Ali believes these untapped youths can become figures of hope for their communities and ultimately promote peace and stability in the region.,Ali is a founding member of End Famine , a campaign founded in 2011 aimed at promoting food security and eradicating famine worldwide, starting with the Horn of Africa. Ali has a law degree from Boston College Law School.
Chris, Downey,Design with the blind in mind,Architect,arch4blind.com,,Chris Downey is an architect, planner, and consultant. Working with design teams and clients, he draws on his unique perspective as a seasoned architect without sight, helping to realize environments that offer not only greater physical accessibility, but also a dimension of delight in architecture experienced through other senses.,Downey enjoyed 20 years of distinguished practice on award-winning custom residences and cultural institutions before losing his sight. One of the few practicing blind architects in the world, Downey has been featured in many media stories and speaks regularly about issues relative to visual impairments and architectural design.
Dambisa, Moyo,Is China the new idol for emerging economies?,Global economist,dambisamoyo.com,,Dambisa Moyo's work examines the interplay between rapidly developing countries, international business, and the global economy -- while highlighting opportunities for investment. She has travelled to more than 60 countries over the past decade, studying the political, economic and financial workings of emerging economies, in particular the BRICs and the frontier economies in Asia, South America, Africa and the Middle East. Her latest book, Winner Take All China’s Race for Resources and What It Means for the World , looks at how commodities markets influence much more than the global economy -- and examines the possible consequences of China's unprecedented rush for commodities such as oil, minerals, water, and food, including the looming specter of commodity-driven conflict.,She is the author of the brilliantly argued Dead Aid Why Aid Is Not Working and How There Is a Better Way for Africa and How the West Was Lost Fifty Years of Economic Folly and the Stark Choices Ahead . Previously, she was an economist at Goldman Sachs, where she worked for nearly a decade, and was a consultant to the World Bank in Washington.
Arthur, Benjamin,The magic of Fibonacci numbers,Mathemagician,www.benjaminmath.com/,,Arthur Benjamin makes numbers dance. In his day job, he's a professor of math at Harvey Mudd College, in his other day job, he's a Mathemagician, taking the stage in his tuxedo to perform high-speed mental calculations, memorizations and other astounding math stunts. It's part of his drive to teach math and mental agility in interesting ways, following in the footsteps of such heroes as Martin Gardner .,Benjamin is the co-author, with Michael Shermer , of Secrets of Mental Math (which shares his secrets for rapid mental calculation), as well as the co-author of the MAA award-winning Proofs That Really Count The Art of Combinatorial Proof . For a glimpse of his broad approach to math, see the list of research talks on his website, which seesaws between high-level math (such as his Vandermonde's Determinant and Fibonacci SAWs, presented at MIT in 2004) and engaging math talks for the rest of us (An Amazing Mathematical Card Trick).
Mikko, Hypponen,How the NSA betrayed the world's trust — time to act,Cybersecurity expert,mikko.hypponen.com,,The chief research officer at F-Secure Corporation in Finland, Mikko Hypponen has led his team through some of the largest computer virus outbreaks in history. His team took down the world-wide network used by the Sobig.F worm. He was the first to warn the world about the Sasser outbreak, and he has done classified briefings on the operation of the Stuxnet worm -- a hugely complex worm designed to sabotage Iranian nuclear enrichment facilities. As a few hundred million more Internet users join the web from India and China and elsewhere, and as governments and corporations become more sophisticated at using viruses as weapons, Hypponen asks, what's next? Who will be at the front defending the world’s networks from malicious software? He says It's more than unsettling to realize there are large companies out there developing backdoors, exploits and trojans.,Even more unsettling revelations this year that the United States' NSA is conducting widespread digital surveillance of both US citizens and anyone whose data passes through a US entity, and that it has actively sabotaged encryption algorithms. Hypponen has become one of the most outspoken critics of the agency's programs and asks us all Why are we so willing to hand over digital privacy?
Grégoire, Courtine,The paralyzed rat that walked,Spinal cord researcher,courtine-lab.epfl.ch,,In a lab in Switzerland, a little white rat is re-learning how to walk. In research dubbed Project Rewalk , Grégoire Courtine and his collaborators are figuring out how a spinal cord with a severe lesion might repair itself, to the point that voluntary locomotion could happen again -- not just reactive movement but brain-directed walking and running. The treatment involves a re-awakening cocktail of chemicals released onto the spinal cord, combined with electrical stimulation -- plus repeated exercise that rehearses the walking movement. As part of the experiment, Courtine's team developed a robot that gently supports the rat vertically but does not push it forward, the rat has to decide to move on its own. And eventually, it does. As Courtine explains, the training forces the brain to recruit what is left of the neural system to get the job done. Courtine holds the International Paraplegic Foundation chair in spinal cord repair at the Center for Neuroprosthetics at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne.,“The new study is the most comprehensive and rigorous presentation to date of what is possible, and the Swiss research team is already working on technology to test the techniques in humans.” — New York Times
Robin, Nagle,What I discovered in New York City trash,Trash anthropologist,robinnagle.com,,Robin Nagle has been the anthropologist-in-residence at the Department of Sanitation in New York City since 2006.,Nagle's fascination with trash stems from her desire to understand the all-too-often invisible infrastructure that guides the flow of garbage through a megalopolis like New York. After all, the city produces 11,000 tons of rubbish each day... and all of that has to be dealt with somewhere and by someone. If not, damaging health problems and consequences for all. So why do sanitation workers experience such stigma, all too often scorned and berated while on the job? Nagle, who is also director of NYU's Draper Interdisciplinary Master's program in humanities and social thought, determined to find out. She got her sanitation worker license and has spent much time with workers on the job, getting an up-close view of the city's garbage and the systems in place to deal with it.
Rodrigo, Canales,The deadly genius of drug cartels,Business professor,som.yale.edu/rodrigo-canales,,Rodrigo Canales is an associate professor of organizational behavior at the Yale School of Management. There, he researches the role of institutions in entrepreneurship and economic development. More specifically, he focuses on how individuals can change organizations and systems--how their backgrounds, professional identities and roles affect how they relate and act in business.,Canales teaches the core MBA course on innovation at Yale, sits on the steering committee of the Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values at MIT and advises several startup companies in Mexico. He earned his MBA and Ph.D. from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Dong, Woo Jang,The art of bow-making,Bow designer,blog.ted.com/tag/dong-woo-jang/,,His parents wouldn’t let him play video games, so Dong Woo Jang had to invent other ways to entertain himself in and around his Seoul apartment. First, he studied spider anatomy and hunting skills for three years, creating their habitat in his room. Next, Dong headed outside, where he picked up fallen tree branches and turned them into archery bows.,Later, while researching the age-old craft, he discovered that his optimal design was strikingly similar to that of his ancestors. Though he concedes that, during his process of “fixing, breaking, redesigning, mending, bending, and amending” bows, he accidently set his building on fire. The 15-year-old says that working with wood -- and traveling back and forth in time -- makes him feel free.
Holly, Morris,Why stay in Chernobyl? Because it's home.,Explorer and filmmaker,hollymorris.com,,Holly Morris is an explorer, and she wants to take us with her. As a filmmaker and correspondent for television programs including Globe Trekker and National Geographic Explorer , Morris has lassoed reindeer in northern Norway, entered a camel race in Niger’s Sahara, investigated Iran's illegal caviar trade and sought out Cubas's Black Panthers in hiding (and much more).,In her book and PBS series, Adventure Divas , Morris chronicles her transition from working a desk job in publishing to being a globetrotting journalist bent on telling the stories of heroines around the world.
Abha, Dawesar,Life in the digital now,Novelist,abhadawesar.com,,Abha Dawesar began her writing career as an attempt to understand herself -- at age 7. It’s a goal that remains at the center of her work Sensorium , her most recent novel, explores the nature of time, self, and uncertainty, using Hindu mythology and modern science as prisms. “At a very basic level, writing was always my way of apprehending the world,” she has said.,Dawesar moved from India to the United States to study at Harvard, and Delhi appears at the center of her novels Family Values and Babyji . But the oversimplified genres of immigrant fiction or ethnic fiction do not appeal to her. “Those looking for a constant South Asian theme or Diaspora theme or immigrant theme will just be disappointed in the long run from my work,” she has said. “The only label I can put up with is that of a writer. And my ideas come from everywhere.”
Mohamed, Hijri,A simple solution to the coming phosphorus crisis,Biologist,www.hijrilab.org/,,Mohamed Hijri is a professor of biology and a researcher at the plant biology research institute (l'Institut de recherche en biologie végétale) at the Université de Montréal. His work focuses on the most common and widespread symbiotic relationship on earth -- between plant roots and a type of fungi found in the soil called arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF). These fungi improve plant growth by increasing roots' ability to absorb phosphorus, while also boosting resistance to pathogens.,As Hijri points out in his talk, the study of AMF and a deeper understanding of them could have big implications for agriculture and could help divert us from an impending crisis -- that we are quickly running out of phosphorus.
Mariana, Mazzucato,Government — investor, risk-taker, innovator,Innovation economist,MarianaMazzucato.com,,States and governments are often depicted as slow, bureaucratic, risk-averse. That argument is used in support of making states smaller and the private sector bigger. In her latest book, The Entrepreneurial State Debunking Private vs. Public Myths in Innovation and in her research, Mariana Mazzucato offers a bold contrarian view States aren't only market regulators and fixers, but market makers -- actively creating a vision for innovation and investing in risky and uncertain areas where private capital may not see the ROI. Yes Private venture capital is much less risk-taking than generally thought. As an example, the technology behind the iPhone and Google exists because the U.S. government has been very interventionist in funding innovation. Private investors jumped in only later. The same is true today of what promises to be the next big thing after the Internet the green revolution.,Mazzucato, a professor of economics at the Science and Technology Policy Research Unit (SPRU, University of Sussex), argues that Europe needs today to rediscover that role -- that what the continent needs is not austerity but strategic investments (and new instruments such as public investments banks) towards an innovation Union.
Xavier, Vilalta,Architecture at home in its community,Architect and urbanist,www.vilalta.cat/,,Named young architect of the year at the Leaf Awards in 2008, Xavier Vilalta is the founder of XVA, a Barcelona-based design team operating in the fields of architecture, urbanism and research. The TED Fellow and his team have worked on more than 60 projects, including homes, schools, cultural institutions and commercial buildings everywhere from Africa to the Middle East. Declaring that we love nature and we care about people, the team's design philosophy is to connect the old and the new, co-opting and updating the best thinking of past traditions to create modern buildings that are both deeply respectful of the past and searingly contemporary.,Recent projects include the Lideta Mercato shopping mall in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and a concept for a series of urban gardens in Qatar.
Gian, Giudice,Why our universe might exist on a knife-edge,Theoretical physicist,tedxcern.web.cern.ch/speakers/gian-giudice,,Gian Giudice is a permanent member of CERN's group for theoretical physics. He has researched topics like supersymmetry, extra dimensions and dark matter, and has formulated theories that describe the earliest stages of the universe and that apply our knowledge of the particle world to smaller distances.,As author of the popular book, A Zeptospace Odyssey , Giudice is active in communicating the complex work of the Large Hadron Collider to the public. Meant for the lay reader, the book shares both the innovations needed to build the LHC and the theories it was created to prove. After the Higgs boson discovery, Giudice found the surprising result that, if the Standard Model continues to hold up at very small distances, the universe must be in a critical state, near to a phase transition that could lead to the collapse of all atomic matter. Luckily, in his TED Talk, he shares that this would happen very, very, very far in the future.
Parul, Sehgal,An ode to envy,Literary critic,ParulSehgal.com,, No scorn, no condescension . We read first for distraction then consolation then for company. And finally to be worthy of the company we kept, writes literary critic Parul Sehgal, whose reviews are as delicious and delightful as the books themselves. Sehgal is an editor at The New York Times Book Review . Previously the Books Editor at NPR.org and the Senior Editor at Publisher's Weekly , Sehgal is the recipient of the 2010 Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing and the 2008 Pan African Literary Forum’s OneWorld Prize for fiction. She lives in New York City.,
Charles, Robertson,Africa's next boom,Emerging-markets economist,fastestbillion.com,,Checking one's assumptions about Africa has become a trope -- but it's still important to do, and still surprising. In The Fastest Billion , economist Charles Robertson and his co-authors suggest that behind the stereotyped narrative are some jawdropping indicators of extreme economic and social growth. He and colleagues make the case that Africa is moving away -- quickly -- from the bottom billion and will be the fastest continent to reach the fourth economic age ... of high-income, low-corruption and generally democratic norms. Rich in resources, and powered by young people who are holding leaders to account in new ways, Africa’s economies are now returning some of the highest growth rates on Earth. How will this trend play out? Robertson, a leading emerging markets specialist, is the global chief economist and head of the macro-strategy unit at Renaissance Capital, where he covers the global economic themes having the greatest impact on emerging markets.,“Robertson appears to believe that a combination of more responsible government and the experience of a decade ago means that it is unlikely that debt will become a major burden in Sub-Saharan Africa soon.” — gatewaytoafrica.comSteve, Howard,Let's go all-in on selling sustainability,Corporate innovator,www.stevehoward.biz/,,More than 690 million people visited an Ikea store in 2012, the company sold €27 billion worth of low-priced sofas, lamps, bookshelves and other goods (including €1.3 billion just in food) from more than 1,000 suppliers. Steve Howard, the chief sustainability officer, is charged with making that supply chain, and the company's 298 stores and almost 3,000 products, live more lightly upon the earth. Coming to Ikea from the nonprofit consultancy Climate Group, Howard has embraced the challenge of working with a single big company, and the improvements he's made so far include helping farmers grow more-sustainable cotton around the world, remaking classic products to use fewer parts, and investing €1.5 billion through 2015 in renewable energy sources, notably wind and solar. (Like the rollout in the UK of Ikea solar panel systems for the home.) And if you've been to an Ikea lately, you probably already know this, through signs and explainers posted all over the store. Telling the story of sustainability is key, Howard believes, as companies like his become agents of transformative change. As he says I don't think we've fully realized the extent to which sustainability is going to shape society and the business landscape over the next couple of decades.,“Ikea isn't starting from ground zero – for years the company has been working through sustainable business models – yet this new strategy represents a huge scaling up of its ethical business practices.” — Annie Kelly, Guardian Professional
Hetain, Patel,Who am I? Think again,Artist,www.hetainpatel.com/,,What determines our identities anyway? asks Hetain Patel. As a child, Patel wanted to be like Spider-Man or Bruce Lee, later, he aimed to be more like his father, who displays a much different kind of bravery. From these ambitions, Patel's new show Be Like Water examines shifting identities of all kinds, using dance and bold imagery to power a story of self-examination and self-creation.,As a conceptual artist, Patel has used photography, sculpture, installation and performance to challenge cultural identity. For his work, he has grown a mustache exactly like the one his father wore when he emigrated from India to the United Kingdom in the 1960s, and remixed the practice henna tattooing to incorporate English words and comics books. Patel's conclusion about identity that it is an ever-shifting game of imitation.
Alessandro, Acquisti,What will a future without secrets look like?,Privacy economist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/alessandro_acquisti,,Online, we humans are paradoxical We cherish privacy, but freely disclose our personal information in certain contexts. Privacy economics offers a powerful lens to understand this paradox, and the field has been spearheaded by Alessandro Acquisti and his colleagues' analyses of how we decide what to share online and what we get in return.,His team's surprising studies on facial recognition software showed that it can connect an anonymous human face to an online name -- and then to a Facebook account -- in about 3 seconds. Other work shows how easy it can be to find a US citizen's Social Security number using basic pattern matching on public data. Work like this earned him an invitation to testify before a US Senate committee on the impact technology has on civil liberties.
Iwan, Baan,Ingenious homes in unexpected places,Urban documentarian,iwan.com,,Iwan Baan's interest in human connection is reflected in his ability to shift from architectural photographer to documentarian. In his photos of informal communities around the world, he shows how vernacular architecture and placemaking serve as examples of human ingenuity. His photography is a window into the world around us.,
Amanda, Bennett,We need a heroic narrative for death,Journalist,amandabennett.com/,,Amanda Bennett is the Executive Editor of Projects and Investigations for Bloomberg News. Previously she served for three years as the Managing Editor of projects for The Oregonian in Portland and was a reporter for The Wall Street Journal for more than 20 years.,In 1997 Bennett shared the Pulitzer Prize for national reporting for a Wall Street Journal investigation on the struggle against AIDS, and in 2001 received a second Pulitzer Prize, for public service, as the lead of a team at The Oregonian . In 2010 Bennett was elected as co-Chairman of the Pulitzer Prize Board.
Jeff, Speck,The walkable city,Urban planner,jeffspeck.com,,Jeff Speck is a city planner and architectural designer who, through writing, lectures, and built work, advocates internationally for smart growth and sustainable design. As Director of Design at the National Endowment for the Arts from 2003 through 2007, he oversaw the Mayors' Institute on City Design and created the Governors' Institute on Community Design , a federal program that helps state governors fight suburban sprawl. Prior to joining the Endowment, Mr. Speck spent ten years as Director of Town Planning at Duany Plater-Zyberk and Co. , a leading practitioner of the New Urbanism, where he led or managed more than forty of the firm's projects. He is the co-author of Suburban Nation The Rise of Sprawl and the Decline of the American Dream as well as The Smart Growth Manual . He serves as a Contributing Editor to Metropolis Magazine , and on the Sustainability Task Force of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. His new book, Walkable City How Downtown Can Save America, One Step at a Time , is now available in print, digital, and audio format.,
Andrew, Fitzgerald,Adventures in Twitter fiction,Editor,andrewjfitzgerald.com/,,Andrew Fitzgerald is a writer, editor and Tweeter. As a member of the News and Journalism Partnerships team at Twitter, Fitzgerald explores creative uses of digital storytelling on the platform and elsewhere on the web. In 2012 he helped launch the first Twitter Fiction Festival , a five-day event that took place completely on Twitter in an effort to bring together stories that made creative use of the platform.,In his spare time Fitzgerald blogs and writes his own fiction, including the 2010 novel The Collective . He lives in New York, where he likes to experiment .
Gary, Slutkin,Let's treat violence like a contagious disease,Epidemiologist,cureviolence.org/,,Gary Slutkin is an epidemiologist, an innovator in violence reduction, and the Founder/Executive Director of Cure Violence, formerly known as CeaseFire. As a physician, he began his career working in Somalian refugee camps, where tuberculosis and cholera epidemics flared up regularly. He went on to work for the World Health Organization on reversing epidemics, supporting Uganda’s AIDS program which helped the country reversed the course of the disease. Upon returning to the United States, it occurred to him could gun violence function like an epidemic? And could it be fought, and even stopped, using the principles of public health?,Slutkin has applied the lessons learned over a decade of fighting epidemics to the creation of Cure Violence, a public health approach that has been statistically validated by two independent evaluations by the Department of Justice and Centers for Disease Control. Cure Violence has been called a pioneering violence reduction model and its methods have received nods from the Institute of Medicine and the U.S. Conference of Mayors. The program is being replicated at more than 50 sites in 15 U.S. cities, as well as in many countries abroad.
Trita, Parsi,Iran and Israel Peace is possible,Political scientist,TritaParsi.com,,Writer and political scientist Trita Parsi is an expert observer of the labyrinthine relationships between the U.S. and the Middle East, cutting through conventional stereotypes to laying bare the often-contentious history of the region. When Parsi was only 4, his family fled to Sweden from Iran to escape political repression. Parsi later relocated to the U.S., where he earned a PhD and founded the National Iranian American Council (NIAC), a grassroots organization promoting the interests of the U.S./ Iranian community.,“Parsi argues that there is still a chance for diplomacy to allow the United States and Iran to break out of their ‘institutionalized enmity.'” — Foreign Affairs
Janette, Sadik-Khan,New York's streets? Not so mean any more,City transportation expert,www.bloombergassociates.org/principal/janette-sadik-khan,,Janette Sadik-Khan was appointed commissioner of the New York City Department of Transportation in 2007. For six years, she managed nearly 5,000 employees and was responsible for the operation and management of some 6,300 miles of streets throughout the city's 5 boroughs.,Despite her access to a budget of some $2 billion, Sadik-Khan adopted a designer's approach to urban innovation rapid testing and regular iteration. In other words, try an idea to see if it would work, if it didn't, try something else, no harm done. In Times Square, an iconic New York City location visited by 350,000 people every day, this involved the creation of pedestrian zones by painting the asphalt and putting up some lawn chairs. The success of the approach allowed her to create 50 pedestrian zones throughout the city, in the process repurposing 26 acres of space previously allocated to cars.
Michael, Sandel,Why we shouldn't trust markets with our civic life,Political philosopher,www.gov.harvard.edu/people/faculty/michael-sandel,,Michael Sandel is one of the best known American public intellectuals. The London Observer calls him one of the most popular teachers in the world and indeed his lectures at Harvard draw thousands of students eager to discuss big questions of modern political life bioethics, torture, rights versus responsibilities, the value we put on things. Sandel's class is a primer on thinking through the hard choices we face as citizens. The course has been turned into a public TV series with companion website and book Justice What’s the Right Thing to Do? In his newest book, What Money Can't Buy, he challenges the idea that markets are morally neutral. To understand the importance of his purpose, a Guardian reviewer wrote of the book, you first have to grasp the full extent of the triumph achieved by market thinking in economics, and the extent to which that thinking has spread to other domains. This school sees economics as a discipline that has nothing to do with morality, and is instead the study of incentives, considered in an ethical vacuum. Sandel's book is, in its calm way, an all-out assault on that idea, and on the influential doctrine that the economic approach to utility maximisation explains all human behaviour.,Read more about his thinking on markets and morality Lunch with Michael Sandel on FT.com >>
Michael, Porter,Why business can be good at solving social problems,Business strategist,www.isc.hbs.edu,,Fortune magazine calls Michael Porter simply the most famous and influential business professor who has ever lived. His books are part of foundational coursework for business students around the world, he's applied sharp insight to health care systems, American competitiveness, development in rural areas. Now he's taking on a massive question the perceived disconnect between corporations and society. He argues that companies must begin to take the lead in reconceiving the intersection between society and corporate interests -- and he suggests a framework, that of  shared value , which involves creating economic value in a way that also creates value for society. Porter is a University Professor at Harvard Business School, where he leads the Institute on Strategy and Competitiveness, studying competitiveness for companies and nations -- and as a solution to social problems. He is the founder of numerous nonprofits, including The Initiative for a Competitive Inner City, a nonprofit, private-sector organization to catalyze inner-city business development.,“Everyone who talks about sustainable competitive advantage and how they're going to get it -- they don't say, 'This meeting is occurring because Mike Porter said it's important.' But that is why.” — Roger Martin, University of Toronto's Rotman School of Business, quoted in Fortune
Jason, Pontin,Can technology solve our big problems?,Editor,www.technologyreview.com/.../jason-pontin/,,As the editor-in-chief and publisher of MIT Technology Review , Jason Pontin looks into the future, and thinks deeply about what technologies are going to get us there. Pontin has been editor-in-chief of the magazine since 2004 and publisher since 2005, at which point he began its transition to a digital-first magazine. Pontin reduced the number of annual print issues from eleven to six while refocusing the publication's energy toward original daily content. From 1996 to 2002, Pontin was the editor of the now-defunct Red Herring magazine.,
Fabian, Oefner,Psychedelic science,Photographer,fabianoefner.com/,,Fabian Oefner is a photographer and artist who wants to blend the disciplines of art and science. His psychedelic images capture natural phenomena and present them in unique and eye-catching ways. To date, subjects have included sound waves, iridescence, even magnetic ferroliquids and fire. His aim to create images that appeal to both a viewer's heart and brain.,Oefner's photographs have been exhibited in various countries and are part of private collections around the globe. Besides pursuing his own projects, he also works on ad campaigns. He works and lives in Switzerland.
Amy, Webb,How I hacked online dating,Digital strategist,webbmediagroup.com/amy-webb,,Amy Webb tells stories with data -- in her award-winning practice as a reporter for Newsweek and the Wall Street Journal, and now as the head of Webbmedia Group, a digital-strategy consultancy.,She's a co-founder of SparkCamp , a series of weekend discussions about big ideas around media from great new storytelling styles to making world change.
Kelli ,Swazey,Life that doesn't end with death,Anthropologist,ugm.academia.edu/KelliSwazey,,Kelli Swazey is fascinated by two big questions how do we know who we are, and how does our identity shape interactions with others? As a cultural anthropologist, Swazey has explored these ideas by researching how religion, spirituality and politics define society in Indonesia, where she has lived for more than 10 years. Swazey is currently a lecturer at the Center for Cross-Cultural and Religious Studies at Gadjah Mada University.,In her research, Swazey has looked at Christian-Muslim relations in North Sulawesi, documented Indonesian church services in New England and taken an interest in the funeral practices in Tana Toraja, located in eastern Indonesia. Her husband is an ethnic Torajan, and Swazey found herself fascinated by his stories of playing with his grandfather long after he was dead. Examinging the way Torajans make death a unique part of village life has deeply influenced her own thoughts on the end of life, she says. This is why she loves anthropology because thinking about human difference has the power to teach us about ourselves.
Malcolm, Gladwell,The unheard story of David and Goliath,Writer,gladwell.com/,,Malcolm Gladwell searches for the counterintuitive in what we all take to be the mundane cookies, sneakers, pasta sauce. A New Yorker staff writer since 1996, he visits obscure laboratories and infomercial set kitchens as often as the hangouts of freelance cool-hunters -- a sort of pop-R&D gumshoe -- and for that has become a star lecturer and bestselling author. Sparkling with curiosity, undaunted by difficult research (yet an eloquent, accessible writer), his work uncovers truths hidden in strange data . His always-delightful blog tackles topics from serial killers to steroids in sports, while provocative recent work in the New Yorker sheds new light on the Flynn effect -- the decades-spanning rise in I.Q. scores. Gladwell has written four books. The Tipping Point , which began as a New Yorker piece, applies the principles of epidemiology to crime (and sneaker sales), while Blink examines the unconscious processes that allow the mind to thin slice reality -- and make decisions in the blink of an eye. His third book, Outliers , questions the inevitabilities of success and identifies the relation of success to nature versus nurture. The newest work, What the Dog Saw and Other Adventures , is an anthology of his New Yorker contributions.,He says There is more going on beneath the surface than we think, and more going on in little, finite moments of time than we would guess.
Kevin, Breel,Confessions of a depressed comic,Comedian, activist,kevinbreel.com,,As a teenager, Kevin Breel almost took his own life. His story, so powerfully told in his viral TEDxYouth Talk, gives voice to an often silent struggle and offers a message of hope.,As Jack Knox writes in the Times Colonist 
James, Flynn,Why our IQ levels are higher than our grandparents',Moral philosopher,www.csun.edu/~jaf35230/,,Year over year, people fare better on standardized tests, a global phenomenon known as the Flynn Effect . James Flynn, the New Zealand-based researcher who discovered this, believes that environmental factors play a greater role in intelligence than genetics does.,His latest findings, discussed in his 2012 book Are We Getting Smarter? , also suggest that women are not only as intelligent as men, but superior when it comes to executive function. “Women, when exposed to modernity, do equal men for IQ,” Flynn said to TV ONE’s Greg Boyed. “But in the formal educational setting where they apply their intelligence, they’re outperforming men all hollow.”
Onora, O'Neill,What we don't understand about trust,Philosopher,www.equalityhumanrights.com/.,,Philosopher Baroness Onora O'Neill thinks we are perverting trust. Considering how much stock we put into trust and assessing trusting attitudes, it's something we don't really understand, argues O'Neill. What we really need, she says, is not trust -- but trustworthiness . In addition to her study of how we (wrongly) approach trust and accountability in civic life, O'Neill also focuses on bioethics and international justice.,O'Neill's most recent book, co-written with Neil Manson is Rethinking Informed Consent in Bioethics , published in 2007. She was Principal of Newnham College, a college of the University of Cambridge, from 1992 to 2006, and President of the British Academy from 2005 to 2009. In early 2013 O'Neill was confirmed as the new Chair of England's Equality and Human Rights Commission. She is a crossbench member of the House of Lords.
Stuart, Firestein,The pursuit of ignorance,Neuroscientist,www.columbia.edu/cu/.../stuart-firestein/faculty.htm.,,You’d think that a scientist who studies how the human brain receives and perceives information would be inherently interested in what we know. But Stuart Firestein says he’s far more intrigued by what we don’t. “Answers create questions,” he says. “We may commonly think that we begin with ignorance and we gain knowledge [but] the more critical step in the process is the reverse of that.”,Firestein, who chairs the biological sciences department at Columbia University, teaches a course about how ignorance drives science. In it -- and in his 2012 book on the topic -- he challenges the idea that knowledge and the accumulation of data create certainty. Facts are fleeting, he says, their real purpose is to lead us to ask better questions.
Elizabeth, Loftus,How reliable is your memory?,False memories scholar,faculty.washington.edu/eloftus/,,Elizabeth Loftus altered the course of legal history by revealing that memory is not only unreliable, but also mutable. Since the 1970s, Loftus has created an impressive body of scholarly work and has appeared as an expert witness in hundreds of courtrooms, bolstering the cases of defendants facing criminal charges based on eyewitness testimony, and debunking “recovered memory” theories popular at the time, as in her book The Myth of Repressed Memory False Memories and Allegations of Sexual Abuse (with Katherine Ketcham).,Since then, Loftus has dedicated herself to discovering how false memories can affect our daily lives, leading her to surprising therapeutic applications for memory modification -- including controlling obesity by implanting patients with preferences for healthy foods.
Benjamin, Barber,Why mayors should rule the world,Political theorist,BenjaminBarber.org,,Benjamin Barber burst into the media spotlight on September 11, 2001, when his book Jihad Vs. McWorld , published several years earlier, assumed newly horrific relevance. With his prophetic analysis of the emerging collision of tribalism and globalism, Barber established the parameters for 21st Century political debate.,A passionate advocate of democracy’s power, Barber continues to explore solutions for dysfunctional systems and political paralysis. In his forthcoming new work What if Mayors Ruled the World , Barber plans to show how decentralized local governments can be more flexible - and more in tune with their constituents - than their federal counterparts.
Andras, Forgacs,Leather and meat without killing animals,Bioprinting entrepreneur,www.modernmeadow.com/,,An entrepreneur in tissue engineering, Andras Forgacs is the co-founder and CEO of Modern Meadow , a company developing novel biomaterials. These include cultured meat and leather which, as they put it, will require no animal slaughter and much lower inputs of land, water, energy and chemicals. This approach involves sourcing cells from living animals, multiplying these cells into billions, and then assembling them into the tissue precursors of meat or leather. The products, for now, are at a prototype stage.,Previously, Andras co-founded Organovo , which uses 3D bioprinting to create human tissues for pharmaceutical research and medical applications, such as drug development and replacement tissues. Organovo’s bioprinting technology was recognized by MIT Technology Review on its TR50 list of most innovative companies for 2012.
Eric, Berlow and Sean Gourley,Mapping ideas worth spreading,Physicist and military theorist,ericlberlow.net/,,Sean Gourley's twin passions are physics (working on nanoscale blue-light lasers and self-assembled quantum nanowires) and politics (he once ran for a national elected office back home in New Zealand).,A Rhodes scholar, he's spent the past five years working at Oxford on complex adaptive systems and collective intelligent systems -- basically, using data to understand the nature of human conflict . As he puts it, This research has taken me all over the world from the Pentagon, to the House of Lords, the United Nations and most recently to Iraq. Originally from New Zealand, he now lives in San Francisco, where he is the co-founder and CTO of Quid which is building a global intelligence platform. He's a 2009 TED Fellow.
Marla, Spivak,Why bees are disappearing,Bees scholar,www.beelab.umn.edu/,,Bees pollinate a third of our food supply -- they don’t just make honey! -- but colonies have been disappearing at alarming rates in many parts of the world due to the accumulated effects of parasitic mites, viral and bacterial diseases, and exposure to pesticides and herbicides. Marla Spivak, University of Minnesota professor of entomology and 2010 MacArthur Fellow , tries as much as possible to think like bees in her work to protect them. They’re “highly social and complex” creatures, she says, which fuels her interest and her research.,Spivak has developed a strain of bees, the Minnesota Hygienic line, that can detect when pupae are infected and kick them out of the nest, saving the rest of the hive. Now, Spivak is studying how bees collect propolis, or tree resins, in their hives to keep out dirt and microbes. She is also analyzing how flowers’ decline due to herbicides, pesticides and crop monoculture affect bees’ numbers and diversity. Spivak has been stung by thousands of bees in the course of her work.
James, Lyne,Everyday cybercrime — and what you can do about it,Cybersecurity specialist,sophos.com,,In an ever-expanding world of networked mobile devices, security threats -- and our ignorance of them -- are more widespread than ever. James Lyne of security firm Sophos believes that if we continue to ignore basic best practices, security is on a trajectory of failure. A self-described geek, Lyne spends time ripping apart the latest gadgets and software, builds true random number generators out of tinfoil and smoke alarm parts, among other unlikely objects. But his gift lies in his ability to explain complicated concepts and abstract threats to diverse audiences around the world.,
Apollo, Robbins,The art of misdirection,Gentleman thief,istealstuff.com,,Pickpocketing is a triumph of craft a distracting touch with one hand, while the other hand gets to work, and the next thing you know ... where's my wallet? Apollo Robbins is a modern master of picking pockets, possessor of a subtle understanding of human attention, a taste for classic crime, and something he calls grift sense -- which, as he told the New Yorker , is “stepping outside yourself and seeing through the other person’s eyes, thinking through the other person’s mind, but it’s happening on a subconscious level.” Robbins makes a living as an entertainer, speaker and television personality, and he also is the founder of Whizmob Inc., a collective of misdirection experts -- including reformed criminals -- that schools military and law enforcement leaders in fraud and scam tactics. Robbins has also collaborated with academics in his quest to understand how awareness and attention can be manipulated. He's co-author of a 2011 paper that explores something he noticed in his countless hours of practice people's eyes are more easily misdirected to follow a curve than a straight line.,“In magic circles, Robbins is regarded as a kind of legend, though he largely remains, as the magician Paul Harris told me, 'the best-kept secret in town.'” — Adam Green, New Yorker
Sonia, Shah,3 reasons we still haven’t gotten rid of malaria,Science writer,SoniaShah.com,,Aided by economics, culture, its own resilience and that of the insect that carries it (the mosquito), the malaria parasite has determined for thousands of years the health and course not only of human lives, but also of whole civilizations. In her book The Fever , author Sonia Shah outlines the epic and devastating history of malaria and shows how it still infects 500 million people every year, and kills half a million, in a context where economic inequality collides with science and biology.,Shah’s previous book The Body Hunters established her as a heavy hitter in the field of investigative human rights reporting. She is a frequent contributor to publications such as Scientific American, The Nation and Foreign Affairs.
Ron, McCallum,How technology allowed me to read,Labor lawyer and activist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/ron_mccallum,,Ron McCallum AO is one of Australia's most respected industrial and discrimination lawyers and a prominent human rights advocate. With a long career as a legal academic and teacher, in 1993 he became the first totally blind person appointed to a full professorship at any Australian university when he became Professor in Industrial Law at the University of Sydney. He served as Dean of the University of Sydney Law School for five years and is now an emeritus professor. McCallum is a leading light in the disabled community, working for equality among all Australians. He is also chair of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.,Read TEDxSydney's Q&A with Ron McCallum >>
Jake, Barton,The museum of you,Designer and storyteller,ocalprojects.net,,Jake Barton is principal and founder of Local Projects , a New York-based design firm which specializes in media design. Since 2006, Barton and his team have been working on creating the media design for the 9/11 Memorial and Museum , they also worked to develop the algorithm used to place names around the 9/11 Memorial itself. Other clients include the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum , the Frank Gehry-designed Eisenhower Presidential Memorial and Cleveland Museum of Art .,In 2013, Local Projects was named the National Design Award winner for Interaction Design , while in 2011 it was listed as the second most innovative design firm by Fast Company magazine. Meanwhile, The Atlantic writes of Barton, At the crux of Barton's work is the idea of collaborative storytelling, which invites museum and memorial visitors to share their own experiences, observations, and memories through interactive technology, turning passive observers into active participants.
George, Monbiot,For more wonder, rewild the world,Rewilding campaigner,monbiot.com,,In summer 2013, journalist and campaigner George Monbiot published Feral Rewilding the Land, the Sea and Human Life . Part personal journal, part essay on natural science and wildlife (and on our own wild side), the book follows Monbiot's efforts to re-engage with nature. He shows how, by restoring and rewilding our damaged ecosystems on land and at sea, we can bring wonder back into our lives, and lays out a new, positive environmental vision, in which nature is allowed to find its own way.,After studying zoology at Oxford, Monbiot worked for the BBC’s natural history unit, making investigative environmental programs, one of which won a Sony Award. He left the BBC to spend six wild years in the tropics. Investigating the Indonesian transmigration program, he walked and canoed across West Papua, becoming lost in the forest, eating insects and rats to stay alive and being stung almost to death by hornets. Investigating evictions in Brazil, he was beaten up by gunmen and nearly shot by military police. The radio program he made about his encounter with a police torturer in Maranhão was used for several years on the BBC’s health and safety training course - as an example of what not to do. Back in Britain, he founded the landrights campaign The Land Is Ours and started writing columns for the Guardian . His other books include Amazon Watershed , Captive State, The Age of Consent and Heat .
Alexa, Meade,Your body is my canvas,Visual artist,www.alexameade.com,,Alexa Meade’s portraits spring from a long-term fascination with the illusions inherent in representational media. Rather than paint on canvas, she applies paint directly to her subjects -- the people, as well as the objects surrounding them and the background. She then photographs the ephemeral installation/painting. The resulting optically treacherous portraits collapse the subject, foreground and background into one continuous plane, challenging the perceptual boundaries between 2D and 3D.,“Meade uses a brush. She paints skin on skin, lips on lips and eyebrows on eyebrows, and the insides of nostrils, using her own mixture of nontoxic paints and unspecified ingredients.” — Washington Post
Chrystia, Freeland,The rise of the new global super-rich,Plutocracy chronicler,blogs.reuters.com/chrystia-freeland/,,Author Chrystia Freeland looks under the hood of global capitalism to expose the technological, economic and structural inequalities pushing society in unforeseen directions. Along the way, she takes the temperature of a rising caste -- the super rich -- and shows how the creation of vast fortunes at the top hollow out the middle class in western industrialised countries. This rising income inequality, she argues, has a structural character, and is becoming a cultural and social issue, with consequences for social cohesion and social mobility.,Freeland began her career as an “accidental journalist” with frontline bulletins from the Ukraine in the heat of the Soviet collapse. She is now an editor at Thomson Reuters, and is frequently featured on media outlets ranging from the International Herald Tribune to The Colbert Report .
Kelly, McGonigal,How to make stress your friend,Health psychologist,KellyMcGonigal.com,,Stanford University psychologist Kelly McGonigal is a leader in the growing field of “science-help.” Through books, articles, courses and workshops, McGonigal works to help us understand and implement the latest scientific findings in psychology, neuroscience and medicine.,Straddling the worlds of research and practice, McGonigal holds positions in both the Stanford Graduate School of Business and the School of Medicine. Her most recent book, The Willpower Instinct , explores the latest research on motivation, temptation and procrastination, as well as what it takes to transform habits, persevere at challenges and make a successful change.
Adam, Spencer,Why I fell in love with monster prime numbers,Science communicator,adamspencer.com.au,,Adam Spencer is the breakfast host on 702 ABC Sydney , the most listened-to talk show in Australia's biggest and most competitive market -- but (or maybe because) in between the usual fare of weather, traffic and local politics he weaves a spell of science, mathematics and general nerdery. Really! In a radio landscape dominated by shock jocks and morning zoos, he plays eclectic tunes, talks math, and never misses the chance to interview a Nobel Prize winner. Which is unsurprising once you find out that this former world debating champion had actually started on a PhD in Pure Mathematics before he began dabbling in improv comedy, which eventually led to his media career.,Numbers, he says, are the musical notes with which the symphony of the universe is played.
May, El-Khalil,Making peace is a marathon,Founder of the Beirut Marathon,https//www.ted.com/speakers/may_el_khalil,,The beautiful city of Beirut, Lebanon, has seen its share of tragedy, as a seat of Lebanon's long-running civil war (1975-1990) and the Israeli-Lebanese conflict that came to a head in 2006. But in 2003, May El-Khalil, a local sports official, decided It's time to start a marathon, open to all, as an antidote to sectarianism. And despite ongoing political and security pressure, the Beirut Marathon, now entering its 11th year, has become not only the largest running event in the Middle East but a powerful force for peace.,El-Khalil was inspired to start the marathon after a personal tragedy a near-fatal running accident. Doctors told her she would never run again. She was hospitalized for two years and had to undergo a long series of surgeries. But the resolve from this personal struggle created an event that, each year, draws runners and fans from opposing political and religious communities in a symbolic act of peace. Case in point In 2012, on a rainy and windy November day, more than 33,000 runners turned out. Other countries around the region are now thinking of replicating this model.
Steve, Ramirez and Xu Liu,A mouse. A laser beam. A manipulated memory.,Neuroscientist,OkaySteve.com,,Steve is a graduate student at MIT’s Brain and Cognitive Sciences department pursuing a Ph.D. in neuroscience. His work focuses on finding where single memories are located throughout the brain, genetically tricking the brain cells that house these memories to respond to brief pulses of light, and then using these same flickers of light to reactivate, erase and implant memories. The goals of his research are twofold to figure out how the brain gives rise to the seemingly ephemeral process of memory, and to predict what happens when specific brain pieces breakdown to impair cognition. His work has been published in Science and covered by New Scientist , Discover , Scientific American , and Gizmodo.,Ramirez aims to be a professor who runs a lab that plucks questions from the tree of science fiction to ground them in experimental reality. He believes that a team-oriented approach to science makes research and teaching far more exciting. When he’s not tinkering with memories in the lab, Ramirez also enjoys running and cheering on every sports team in the city of Boston.
Russell, Foster,Why do we sleep?,Circadian neuroscientist,www.eye.ox.ac.uk,,Much as your ear does double duty (balance plus hearing), Russell Foster posits that the eye has two jobs creating vision, but also -- as a completely separate function -- managing our perception of light and dark, providing the clues that our circadian rhythms need to regulate sleep-wake cycles. He and his team at the University of Oxford are exploring a third kind of photoreceptor in the eye not a rod or a cone but a photosensitive retinal ganglion cell (pRGC) that detects light/dark and feeds that information to the circadian system. As Foster explains Embedded within our genes, and almost all life on Earth, are the instructions for a biological clock that marks the passage of approximately 24 hours. Light and dark help us synchronize this inner clock with the outside world. The research on light perception hits home as we age -- faced with fading vision, we also risk disrupted sleep cycles, which have very serious consequences, including lack of concentration, depression and cognitive decline. The more we learn about how our eyes and bodies create our sleep cycles, the more seriously we can begin to take sleep as a therapy.,“Even in animals and people in whom the rods and cones used for vision have been completely destroyed and who are otherwise totally visually blind, the pRGCs can still detect light to shift the circadian clock.” — Russell Foster, in the Guardian
Shigeru, Ban,Emergency shelters made from paper,Architect,shigerubanarchitects.com,,Shigeru Ban's architecture redefines aesthetics, space, structure and even the idea of permanence. In 1986, for the Alvar Aalto Exhibition near Tokyo, Ban experimented with constructing a building from long paper tubes, the kind found at textile factories. The tubes ended up being much stronger than he had imagined, and were easier to waterproof and fireproof than he had guessed. Ban created many experimental buildings in this vein -- from the Japanese Pavilion at Expo 2000 in Germany, which was meant to be recycled upon demolition, to an office for himself and his students set atop the Pompidou Centre in Paris, where they worked for six years.,But Ban's paper-tube designs have found another use -- as emergency shelters for those who have lost their homes in disasters and wars. In 1994, Ban created shelters for refugees in Rwanda. The next year, after an earthquake in Japan, he rebuilt a local church out of paper tubes that became a local fixture for 10 years. His designs -- both low-cost, and dignity-building -- have housed people affected by disasters in Taiwan, China, Haiti, Turkey and Sri Lanka. He helped develop a shelter system after the Japanese earthquake and tsunami of 2011.
Margaret, Heffernan,The dangers of willful blindness,Management thinker,MHeffernan.com,,How do organizations think? In her book Willful Blindness , Margaret Heffernan examines why businesses and the people who run them often ignore the obvious -- with consequences as dire as the global financial crisis and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.,Heffernan began her career in television production, building a track record at the BBC before going on to run the film and television producer trade association IPPA. In the US, Heffernan became a serial entrepreneur and CEO in the wild early days of web business. She now blogs for the Huffington Post and BNET.com . Her latest book, Beyond Measure , a TED Books original, explores the small steps companies can make that lead to big changes in their culture.
Derek, Paravicini and Adam Ockelford,In the key of genius,Musician,www.derekparavicini.net/,,Derek Paravicini weighed half a kilogram when he was born, prematurely at just 25 weeks. Growing up blind and with severe autism, Paravicini had trouble communicating, but was fascinated by sound. He began teaching himself how to play the piano and, by 4-years-old, had taught himself an incredible catalogue of songs that he played with unusual technique. Soon, Paravicini began studying with Adam Ockelford, a teacher at the Linden Lodge School for the Blind in London, who saw in him the marks of a highly inventive musician. Paravicini gave his first concert at age 7 and, two years later, played the Barbican Hall.,Now in his thirties, Paravicini has continued to grow as a performer, with the ability to reimagine complex pieces of music even after only hearing them once. He was featured in the series Extraordinary People in the United Kingdom and, in the United States, on Stan Lee's Superhumans, which verified his musical ability and confirmed his savantism. Paravicini has also worked with composer Matthew King. The two have played improvised pieces on BBC Radio and collaborated on Blue , the first concerto ever composed for someone with learning impairment.
Eleanor, Longden,The voices in my head,Research psychologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/eleanor_longden,,“A consultant psychiatrist ... encouraged her to listen to her voices and try to understand what they meant.” — Nina Lakhani, The Independent UK, October 25, 2009,
Saki, Mafundikwa,Ingenuity and elegance in ancient African alphabets,Graphic designer,www.ziva.org/,,In his book Afrikan Alphabets , Saki Mafundiwaka includes a Ghanaian pictograph meaning “return to the past” This is exactly what he did in 1997 when he cashed in his publishing job 401(k) and left New York to open the Zimbabwe Institute of Vigital Arts (ZIVA) in Harare. (“Vigital” denotes visual arts taught using digital tools.),As a kid growing up in Zimbabwe, Mafundiwaka loved to sketch letterforms he saw in books and magazines, but he didn’t know graphic design was a career option until he arrived in America. Sometimes you have to leave home,” he says, “to discover yourself.” He opened ZIVA to pay it forward. “The dream,” he says, “is for something to come out of Africa that is of Africa.
Jinsop, Lee,Design for all 5 senses,Multi-sense designer,jinsop.com,,A former professor of design, Jinsop Lee founded the firm Uncle Oswald Is My Hero , which produces clever iPod speakers from old telephone handsets. And we'll let him take it from here My design background began when I was 5 years old. My mother cruelly refused to buy me a Star Wars X-wing fighter, so I built my own from Lego. Yes, I was the traumatized little boy in the corner of the playground holding the multi-coloured Lego X-wing fighter. However, this did teach me an important lesson You don't have to follow the instructions that come with the box. As an adult, I started my career as a suit-wearing design consultant, designing stuff and strategies for large companies. I then spent a mandatory two years in the Korean Army without killing anybody. Then I began teaching English, which eventually led to a job as an associate professor of industrial design. Being a professor means you're designing the most important thing of all students and the type of designers they will later become. Now I am working on a series of short videos about industrial design. Each video follows a simple formula the viewer must learn something new about design while laughing (or snickering) an average of two times per minute. It turns out the second criteria is much harder than the first.,“As a designer this guy has given me so much to think about.” — Owen Moss on TED.comDaniel, H. Cohen,For argument’s sake,Philosopher,https//www.ted.com/speakers/dan_cohen,,Philosopher Daniel H. Cohen specializes in argumentation theory, the study of how we use reason (both verbally and in social contexts) to put forth potentially controversial standpoints. Cohen goes beyond just looking at how we plain ol' argue and looks specifically at the metaphors we use for this systematic reasoning. In his work Cohen argues for new, non-combatative metaphors for argument.,Cohen is a Professor of Philosophy at Colby College in Waterville, Maine.
Beardyman,Beardyman,The polyphonic me,Beatboxer and inventor,Beardyman.com,,Beardyman, AKA Darren Foreman, was studying product design at Brighton University in the UK when he started beatboxing. After winning two consecutive UK Beatbox Championships, he turned to live looping (recording and playing back audio samples in real time) as a way to layer his vocal ablutions into dance-floor-rocking hour-long sets . He released his debut album in 2011 and has been rocking stages all over the world ever since.,Working with DMGAudio , Beardyman built what he calls the Beardytron_5000 mkII, a real-time music-production system that could be the solution to the problem of how to smash a dance floor using only your voice -- and how to compose and produce complex and highly nuanced electronic dance music in real time. “There was nothing available that does what I need, so I was forced to make it myself, he says.
Peter, van Manen,How can Formula 1 racing help ... babies?,Electronic systems expert,https//www.ted.com/speakers/peter_van_manen,,To say that Peter van Manen has a high-speed job would be an understatement. As Managing Director of McLaren Electronics, which provides electronics and data collection software to motorsports events, he and his team work in real time during a race to improve cars on about 500 different parameters. That's about 750 million data points in two hours.,But recently van Manen and his team have been wondering Why can't the extremely precise and subtle data-collection and analysis systems used in motorsports be applied elsewhere, for the benefit of all? They have applied their systems to ICU units at Birmingham Children's Hospital with real-time analysis that allows them to proactively prevent cardiac arrests. The unit has seen a 25 percent decrease in life-threatening events. And it's just the beginning.
Julie, Taymor,Spider-Man, The Lion King and life on the creative edge,Director, designer,www.imdb.com/name/nm0853380/,,Working in musicals, Shakespeare, film and opera, Julie Taymor is a wildly imaginative and provocative director and designer. She is well known for having translated the film The Lion King to Broadway , a still-running show for which she also designed costumes, masks and puppets -- and won two Tony Awards. (She was the first woman to win a Tony for directing a musical.) She has received multiple awards for her work, and given both MacArthur and Guggenheim fellowships.,In 2005, she worked on a lavish production of Mozart's opera, The Magic Flute , and in 2006 she co-wrote a version of the story of Beowulf, Grendel . Meanwhile, she has developed a fascinating career in the movies. She directed Across the Universe , a romp through the music of the Beatles, Titus , a 1999 adaptation of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus, and the glorious Frida , the 2002 film about Frida Kahlo for which she received an Oscar nomination. More recently, and most dramatically, Taymor collaborated with musicians from U2 on a Broadway stage version of Marvel Studios' Spider-Man.
Eli, Beer,The fastest ambulance? A motorcycle,Life saver,https//israelrescue.org/about-us.php,,When he was 6-years-old, Eli Beer was walking home from school when he witnessed a bus bombing in Jerusalem. This traumatic experience inspired Beer to seek out a career that saves lives. At age 15, he took an EMT course and began volunteering on an ambulance. But he found that, when someone truly needed fast medical attention, the ambulance just wasn't able to get there in time because of traffic and the distance needed to travel.,At age 17, Beer gathered a like-minded group of EMTs with a passion for saving lives to listen to police scanners and rush to the scene when medical help was needed in their neighborhood. The initiative became United Hatzalah, which is Hebrew for “rescue.” Twenty-five years later, the organization has more than 2,000 volunteers and helped 207,000 people as they waited for an ambulance last year. Beer serves as United Hatzalah’s president.
Bastian, Schaefer,A 3D-printed jumbo jet?,Aircraft engineer,https//www.ted.com/speakers/bastian_schaefer,,Bastian Schaefer is the Cabin and Cargo Innovation Manager at Airbus Operations -- and leads a group of far-thinking engineers who are building out a concept plane . Previously at Airbus, he worked on the development of A380 stairs and components for in-flight entertainment. Between 2006 and 2011 Bastian worked at Bertrand Ingenieurbüro GmbH working on projects with C&D Zodiac Development A350XWB Lavatories, AT Kearney and EADS Technology Watch Consulting. He considers himself a mechanical engineer and has a special interest in cars .,
Tania, Luna,How a penny made me feel like a millionaire,Surprisologist,surprisology.com/,,Tania Luna has an unusual title she calls herself a “surprisologist.” The co-founder and CEO of Surprise Industries , Luna thinks deeply about how to delight, and how to help individuals and teams thrive in uncertain circumstances and develop the bonds needed to get through them.,When Luna was invited to take part in TED’s Worldwide Talent Search in 2012, she expected to give a talk about surprise and the importance of not being attached to outcomes. However, she was inspired to tell a more personal story -- one many of her closest friends didn’t know -- about her Ukrainian family getting asylum in the United States when she was 6-yeard-old and arriving in New York with virtually nothing. She sees her work as connected to her upbringing -- in which a piece of Bazooka bubble gum, a thrown-out toy or a mis-delivered pizza was magical -- because it gave her an appreciation for the joy of little surprises.
Paul, Kemp-Robertson,Bitcoin. Sweat. Tide. Meet the future of branded currency.,Advertising expert,www.contagious.com/blogs,,How do consumers get attached to, come to rely on and trust, the brands they use? How do brands find new ways to develop these relationships? These are the questions Paul Kemp-Robertson spends his time wondering about. Kemp-Robertson is the Editorial Director of Contagious Communications , which he cofounded with Gee Thomson in 2004. Contagious Communications is a multi-arm advertising resource that runs the quarterly magazine Contagious , an app that showcases videos of innovative marketing case studies and various other online resources.,Kemp-Robertson has previously served as editor of shots and Worldwide Director of Creative Resources at Leo Burnett Chicago. He lives in St. Albans, Hertfordshire.
Roberto, D'Angelo + Francesca Fedeli,In our baby's illness, a life lesson,Parents,FightTheStroke.com,,When Roberto D'Angelo and Francesca Fedeli’s son, Mario, was just 10 days old, he was diagnosed as having had a perinatal stroke in the right side of his brain, which left him unable to move the left side of his body. Through mirror neuron rehabilitation, Mario is now 3 years old and has greatly improved motion.,The tech-savvy couple founded FightTheStroke.org to gather and share the experiences of families who have been affected by all types of infant and childhood strokes. The social movement wants to open up a dialogue about the devastating effects of this traumatic event, advocating for young stroke survivors and using technology and open medicine as enablers for their better future. Together, as a family, they’re promoting the awareness of this story as motivational speakers at events like TED Global 2013, Ciudad de las Ideas 2013, Doctors 2.0 2014 and many others. They’re proud organizers of the first TEDMED live streaming 2014 and Med Hackathon in Italy, aimed to regroup the leading experts on Medicine and Innovation. Roberto is the Office 365 Lead at Microsoft Italy, driving business and marketing strategy for the software while also working on improving Microsoft’s Public Cloud. Francesca currently focuses her marketing expertise in the Fightthestroke.org project. She also acts as a member of the Board of Directors of the International Alliance for Pediatric Stroke, and became an Eisenhower Fellow in 2014.
Kate ,Stone,DJ decks made of... paper,Shepherd of electrons,www.katestoneart.com/,,Born in Cheshire, England and the child of a continent-hopping engineer, Kate Stone was often left to her own devices among some of the world's most disparate cultures. Whether learning to cook rice from Gurkhas or spending time alongside a garageful of car repairmen in Borneo, Kate quickly learned that nontraditional problem-solving was often the very best kind.,At 20, Stone moved to Australia and eventually to the outback, where she was soon herding 22,000 sheep on a 120,000-acre farm. She then returned to England and began her studies in electronics at Salford University, before being recruited to do her PhD work in physics at Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory, where her focus on moving electrons eventually led to the creation of her groundbreaking company, Novalia .
Searle, Searle,Our shared condition — consciousness,Philosopher,www.searlescholars.net/,,American philosopher John Serle has made countless contributions to contemporary thinking about consciousness, language, artificial intelligence and rationality itself. In his early work, he focused on the nature of language and what we are conveying when we speak and how the intention behind what we intend to say can the meaning of words from context to context. He is best known for his “Chinese Room” thought experiment, which challenges the notion of a truly intelligent artificial intelligence. In it, he imagines a room containing an individual, who speaks only English, working with a set of English instructions to write a series of Chinese characters in order to anonymous communicate with a Chinese speaker outside the room. If that individual follows the instructions carefully, she can effectively fool the Chinese speaker into thinking he’s talking to someone who understands his language. Serle argues that, at the very least, the metaphor raises deep complications as to whether or not one can truly describe convincing simulations of intelligence as intelligent. He remains of firm believer that subjective experiences are real -- even if they don’t always describe things are they really are -- and are worth thinking about in objective terms because of it.,
Tom, Thum,The orchestra in my mouth,Beatboxer,https//tomthummer.bandcamp.com,,Coming out of the small Brisbane, Australia, hip-hop scene, Tom Thum has become a world presence with his unhuman beatboxing sound. In 2005, he and Joel Turner won the team battle in the World Beatbox Championships, and Thum came second at the Scribble Jam Beatbox Battles, America’s most prestigious hip-hop competition, in 2006. He's a cast member in the hip-hop/circus performance troupe Tom Tom Crew , appearing on Broadway and London's West End.,Thum is also committed to teaching hip-hop, and travels throughout Australia sharing the positive message that music preaches.
Miranda, Wang and Jeanny Yao,Two young scientists break down plastics with bacteria,Science fair winners,sanofibioGENEiuschallenge.ca,,After a visit to a plastic-filled waste transfer station last year, students Miranda Wang and Jeanny Yao learned that much of the plastic in trash may not degrade for 5,000 years. Synthesized into plastics are phthalates, compounds that make shower curtain liners, food wraps and other products bendable but may also adversely impact human reproductive development and health. As plastics slowly break down, these phthalates would leach into the surrounding environment.,So, the two young scientists tackled the problem and ultimately discovered strains of bacteria that have the potential to naturally degrade phthalates. Their work earned a regional first place in British Columbia for the 2012 Sanofi BioGENEius Challenge Canada , as well as a special award for the most commercial potential at the contest’s finals.
Pico, Iyer,Where is home?,Global author,picoiyerjourneys.com/index.php/about/,,Acclaimed travel writer Pico Iyer began his career documenting a neglected aspect of travel -- the sometimes surreal disconnect between local tradition and imported global pop culture. Since then, he has written ten books , exploring also the cultural consequences of isolation, whether writing about the exiled spiritual leaders of Tibet or the embargoed society of Cuba.,Iyer’s latest focus is on yet another overlooked aspect of travel how can it help us regain our sense of stillness and focus in a world where our devices and digital networks increasing distract us? As he says Almost everybody I know has this sense of overdosing on information and getting dizzy living at post-human speeds. Nearly everybody I know does something to try to remove herself to clear her head and to have enough time and space to think. ... All of us instinctively feel that something inside us is crying out for more spaciousness and stillness to offset the exhilarations of this movement and the fun and diversion of the modern world.
Gavin, Pretor-Pinney,Cloudy with a chance of joy,Cloudspotter,https//cloudappreciationsociety.org/wavewat.,,As co-founder of The Idler magazine, Gavin Pretor-Pinney is a longtime advocate of the joys of time ill-spent. In The Cloudspotter's Guide and The Cloud Collector's Handbook , he tackles the idlest pursuit of all cloudwatching.,Pretor-Pinney’s blend of tranquil appreciation and hard science have floated his cloud books to the top of bestseller lists. For Pretor-Pinney, clouds illustrate how mundane phenomena reveal the complex vectors that connect the natural wonders around us.
Bernie, Krause,The voice of the natural world,Natural sounds expert,www.wildsanctuary.com/,,With a stellar electronic music resumé including work with The Byrds, Stevie Wonder and many others, Bernie Krause is assured a place in the pop culture canon. But Krause continues to make history by capturing the fading voices of nature studying sonic interplay between species as they attract mates, hunt prey, and sound out their roles in the ecosystem.,Krause’s recordings are not merely travelogues or relaxation tools -- they are critical barometers of global environmental health. His documents of vanishing aural habitats are a chilling reminder of shrinking biodiversity. As he tells the Guardian The fragile weave of natural sound is being torn apart by our seemingly boundless need to conquer the environment rather than to find a way to abide in consonance with it.
Al, Vernacchio,Sex needs a new metaphor. Here's one ...,Sexuality educator,friendscentral.org,,Al Vernacchio teaches at Friends’ Central, a private Quaker school just outside Philadelphia. His positive, enthusiastic and often humorous approach to comprehensive sexuality education (rather than abstinence-only education) has made “Mr. V.” a popular speaker -- and has recently brought him to the attention of the New York Times Magazine , which profiled his class in the November 20, 2011, cover story Teaching Good Sex . When not talking about sexuality, Vernacchio teaches English and is the faculty moderator of the school's Gay-Straight Alliance. He's also a seasoned wedding officiant .,“Sexuality is a force for good in the universe and the best thing about being human.” — Al Vernacchio
Jack, Andraka,A promising test for pancreatic cancer ... from a teenager,Cancer detector inventor,JackAndraka.net,,After Andraka’s proposal to build and test his idea for a pancreatic cancer detector was rejected from 199 labs, the teen landed at Johns Hopkins. There, he built his device using inexpensive strips of filter paper, carbon nanotubes and antibodies sensitive to mesothelin, a protein found in high levels in people with pancreatic cancer. When dipped in blood or urine, the mesothelin adheres to these antibodies and is detectable by predictable changes in the nanotubes’ electrical conductivity.,In preliminary tests, Andraka’s invention has shown 100 percent accuracy. It also finds cancers earlier than current methods, costs a mere 3 cents and earned the high schooler the 2012 Intel Science Fair grand prize.
Diana, Reiss, Peter Gabriel, Neil Gershenfeld and Vint Cerf,The interspecies internet? An idea in progress,Musician, activist,www.hunter.cuny.edu › .,,Peter Gabriel was a founding member of the extraordinarily successful progressive rock band Genesis. He left the band in 1975 to go solo and, in 1980, set up the international arts festival WOMAD (which stands for World of Music, Arts and Dance) and the record label Real World , both to champion music and artistic innovation from all over the world. Gabriel's stop motion video for Sledgehammer has been named the most-played music video in the history of MTV.,Gabriel is also very interested in human rights. In 1992, he co-founded WITNESS.org , an organization that helps human rights activists and citizen witnesses worldwide make change happen through the use of video. The organization not only distributes digital cameras to empower people to document human-rights abuses, but provides a platform for the spread of video that reveals what is really going on in places all over the globe.
Michael, Green,Why we should build wooden skyscrapers,Architect,mg-architecture.ca/,,“Green’s Tall Wood [project] is a boon for those who are ready to dive into designing wood towers.” — Andrew Michler, Inhabitat.com, March 20, 2012,
Charmian, Gooch,Meet global corruption's hidden players,Anti-corruption activist,GlobalWitness.org,,Charmian Gooch co-founded watchdog NGO Global Witness with colleagues Simon Taylor and Patrick Alley in 1993 in response to growing concerns over covert warfare funded by illicit trade in timber and other industries. Since then, Global Witness has captured headlines for their exposé of “blood diamonds” in Uganda, minerals in the Congo and illegal timber trade between Cambodia and Thailand, and more. With unique expertise on the shadowy threads connecting corrupt businesses and governments, Global Witness continues their quest to uncover and root out the sources of exploitation and conflict. As they said to the Daily Telegraph  Consumers have a right to know what they're buying, and what was done to obtain it.,In 2014 Gooch was awarded the TED Prize (as well as the $1 million Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship). Her Prize wish to know who owns and controls companies, to change the law, and to launch a new era of openness in business.
Sleepy, Man Banjo Boys,Bluegrass virtuosity from ... New Jersey?,Bluegrass musicians,sleepyman.com/,,These days your kid can get famous on YouTube for having water sprayed at him, for being duped about his Halloween candy, and for being high off laughing gas. But what if your 8-year-old gets famous on the Internet for being an absolute genius on the banjo? So goes the story of Jonny Mizzone, who first became a YouTube sensation in early 2011 for videos of him and his brothers tearing it up playing Earl Scruggs's Flint Hill Special . It wasn't long before the press started calling.,Now Jonny, Robbie (fiddle) and Tommy (guitar), known as the Sleepy Man Banjo Boys, are 11, 14 and 15 respectively. In 2011 alone they got calls from The Ellen DeGeneres Show , Jimmy Kimmel Live and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno , and in the summer of 2011 they appeared as musical guests on The Late Show with David Letterman and NBC’s Today Show .
Jinha, Lee,Reach into the computer and grab a pixel,Interface designer, engineer,leejinha.com/,,Jinha Lee is an interface designer, engineer, and researcher working at the boundary of the physical and digital world. A 2013 TED Fellow, he is exploring ways to harness humans' innate kinesthetic and sensory skills to impact the way we interact with the world of digital data.,Jinha is currently on leave from his Ph.D. studies at MIT Media Lab and is leading a team to design TV interfaces at Samsung Electronics in lieu of his national military duty. His recent inventions include the SpaceTop gesture-controlled 3D desktop OS, a levitating tangible interface , and a pen that penetrates into the screen .
Joel, Selanikio,The surprising seeds of a big-data revolution in healthcare,Health and technology activist,www.healthgrades.com › ..,,A practicing pediatrician, former Wall Street computer consultant, and former epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Joel Selanikio is the CEO of DataDyne , a social business working in fields such as international development and global health.,Selanikio started to experiment with electronic data capture back when the Palm Pilot was cutting edge technology. In the years since then, he has helped to experiment with the growing potential and availability of technology--and the growing ubiquity of the cloud. Combining the two has led to systems such as Magpi mobile data collection software. Previously known as EpiSurveyor, the service now has over 20,000 users in more than 170 countries.
Eric ,X. Li,A tale of two political systems,Investor and political scientist,chengwei.com,,A well-connected venture capitalist in Shanghai, where he was born, Eric X. Li studied in America (and even worked for Ross Perot's 1992 presidential campaign) before returning home, where he started doubting the idea that China's progress could only follow the path of the West's free-market principles. In a much-discussed op-ed he wrote for the New York Times in February 2012 and in other writings, he has put forth the idea that China needed a different development framework, around a different idea of modernity. The Chinese system, he says, is meritocratic, highly adaptable despite the one-party rule, long term-oriented, pragmatic and non-individualistic. As he writes The Chinese political system ... comes close to the best formula for governing a large country meritocracy at the top, democracy at the bottom, with room for experimentation in between. While some criticize him as a cheerleader of the Chinese government and a champion of Chinese exceptionalism, Li is comfortable in the role of provocateur. He is the founder of Chengwei Capital in Shanghai, serves on the board of directors of China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) and is a Fellow of the Aspen Institute.,“Li believes that China is inventing an alternative set of organizing principles for human affairs that are fundamentally different—not in opposition—but fundamentally different from what the world has been looking to the West for in the last three-four hundred years.” — Anant Giridharadas, Chinese Dreams
Rodney, Brooks,Why we will rely on robots,Roboticist,rethinkrobotics.com,,MIT professor Rodney Brooks studies and engineers robot intelligence, looking for the holy grail of robotics the AGI, or artificial general intelligence. For decades, we've been building robots to do highly specific tasks -- welding, riveting, delivering interoffice mail -- but what we all want, really, is a robot that can figure things out on its own, the way we humans do.,Brooks realized that a top-down approach -- just building the biggest brain possible and teaching it everything we could think of -- would never work. What would work is a robot who learns like we do, by trial and error, and with many separate parts that learn separate jobs. The thesis of his work which was captured in Fast, Cheap and Out of Control , went on to become the title of the great Errol Morris documentary.
Michael, Archer,How we'll resurrect the gastric brooding frog, the Tasmanian tiger,Paleontologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/michael_archer,,Why do fascinating extinct species have to stay that way? Paleontologist Michael Archer says They don't! He's working to de-extinct the gastric brooding frog and the thylacine, also known as the Tasmanian tiger. These animals could have taught us humans a lot, says Archer, but we wiped them out. A severe missed opportunity.,Archer is a professor in the School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia. Archer's research includes conservation through sustainable use of native resources -- including having native animals as pets -- and trying to bring extinct species back into the world of the living. Previously Archer served as the Curator of Mammals at the Queensland Museum and Director of the Australian Museum in Sydney.
Bob, Mankoff,Anatomy of a New Yorker cartoon,Cartoon editor,www.bobmankoff.com/,,Bob Mankoff has been the cartoon editor of The New Yorker since 1997. But his association with the magazine started many years before that, when he began submitting his own cartoons to the title in 1974. 2,000 rejections later, his first idea drawing was finally accepted and published, and in 1980, he accepted a contract to contribute cartoons on a regular basis. Since then, more than 800 of his cartoons have been published in the magazine.,These days, Mankoff is mainly responsible for helping to select from the 1000 cartoons the magazine receives each week, in order to select the 16 or 17 he says will actually make it into print.
Peter, Attia,Is the obesity crisis hiding a bigger problem?,Surgeon,eatingacademy.com/,,Peter Attia has dedicated his medical career to investigating the relationship between nutrition, obesity and diabetes. A surgeon who developed metabolic syndrome himself despite the fact that he ate well and exercised often, Attia realized that our understanding of these important health issues may not actually be correct. He devoted himself to using vigorous scientific inquiry to test both our assumptions and new hypotheses through the Nutrition Science Initiative , the nonprofit he co-founded in 2012. Attia also writes the blog Eating Academy , which charts his own adventures in nutrition and examines scientific evidence surrounding food, weight loss and disease risk. Overall, he hopes to convince others that sharp increases in the rates of obesity and diabetes -- despite the fact that we are more culturally aware of these problems than ever -- might be a result of people being given the wrong information.,Attia came to this calling through an unusual path. While he was studying mechanical engineering as an undergrad, a personal experience led him to discover his passion for medicine. He enrolled at Stanford Medical School, and went on to a residency in general surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital and a post-doctoral fellowship at the National Cancer Institute. After his residency, he joined the consulting firm McKinsey & Company, where he worked on healthcare and financial system problems. The most valuable skill he learned along the way to ask bold questions about medical assumptions.
Lesley, Hazleton,The doubt essential to faith,Accidental theologist,accidentaltheologist.com,,A psychologist by training and Middle East reporter by experience, British-born Lesley Hazleton has spent the last ten years exploring the vast and often terrifying arena in which politics and religion, past and present, intersect. She's written about the history of the Sunni/Shi'a split, as well as books on two of the Bible's most compelling female figures Mary and Jezebel. Her latest book is The First Muslim , a new look at the life of Muhammad, the founder of Islam. In researching her book, she sat and read the full Koran again -- exploring the beauty and subtlety in this often-misquoted holy book. As she says  I’m always asking questions — not to find “answers,” but to see where the questions lead. Dead ends sometimes? That’s fine. New directions? Interesting. Great insights? Over-ambitious. A glimpse here and there? Perfect.,“Very interesting perspective. Her talk has motivated me to read and learn more about the Koran and make up my own mind rather than get second hand information filled with hate.” — Alan Klein, commenting at Informed Comment, juancole.comCamille, Seaman,Photos from a storm chaser,Photographer,camilleseaman.com,,Camille Seaman takes photographs all over the world using digital and film cameras in multiple formats. Since 2003, her work has concentrated on the fragile environment of the polar regions. Her current project concerns the beauty of natural environments in Siberia.,Seaman's photographs have been published in Newsweek, Outside, Zeit Wissen, Men's Journal and more, and she has self-published many books on themes like “My China” and “ Melting Away Polar Images ” through Fastback Creative Books, a company that she co-founded. In 2008, she was honored with a one-person exhibition, The Last Iceberg , at the National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC.
Paul, Pholeros,How to reduce poverty? Fix homes,Architect,Healthabitat.com,,Change comes slowly, says architect Paul Pholeros. He should know, he has spent the last 30 years working on urban, rural, and remote architectural projects throughout his native Australia and beyond. In particular, he is focused on improving the living environments of the poor, understanding that environment plays a key and often overlooked role in health.,An architect himself, Pholeros met his two co-directors in the organization Healthabitat in 1985, when the three were challenged by Yami Lester, the director of a Aboriginal-controlled health service in the Anangu Pitjatjantjara Lands in northwest South Australia, to stop people getting sick. The findings from that project have guided their thinking ever since, as Pholeros and his partners work to improve sanitation, connect electricity, and provide washing and water facilities to indigenous communities. Above all, the teams focus on engaging these local communities to help themselves--and to pass on their skills to others. In this way, a virtuous circle of fighting poverty is born.
Joseph, Kim,The family I lost in North Korea. And the family I gained.,North Korean refugee,www.drjosephkim.com/,,Joseph Kim is from the northern region of North Korea. Growing up during the great famine of the 1990s, at the age of 12 Joseph saw his father starve to death, his mother disappear and his sister flee to China to search for food. In 2006, when he was 16, he decided to make the dangerous escape alone out of North Korea to look for food -- and for his sister. While hiding in China, he met a Korean-Chinese grandmother who protected and fed him until he found help from Liberty in North Korea (LiNK), a NGO that provided more stabilized shelter and later helped him to escape to the United States. Joseph arrived in the U.S. in 2007 as a refugee. He is now in college studying international business. He is still searching for his sister.,“In my mind, I thought death is death, whether I die of starvation or from being caught by the North Korean authorities.” — Joseph Kim
Juliana, Rotich,Meet BRCK, Internet access built for Africa,Tech entrepreneur,Afromusing.com,,Juliana Rotich is co-founder and executive director of Ushahidi , a nonprofit tech company, born in Africa, that develops free and open-source software for information collection, interactive mapping and data curation. Ushahidi builds tools for democratizing information, increasing transparency and lowering the barriers for individuals to share their stories. Through Crowdmap.com, Swiftly.org and accompanying mobile applications, Ushahidi is making crowdsourcing tools available and useful. Their latest product is BRCK , a tool for resilient connectivity -- anywhere.,Rotich is also a founder of iHub , a Nairobi tech space described as part open community workspace (co-working), part vector for investors and VCs and part incubator. She is a TED Senior Fellow and serves on the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Information Communications Technology. She co-founded Mobisoko, a mobile marketplace for language and location relevant apps in Africa. She was named Social Entrepreneur of the Year in 2011 by The World Economic Forum.
Didier, Sornette,How we can predict the next financial crisis,Risk economist,www.er.ethz.ch,,While financial crashes, recessions, earthquakes and other extreme events appear chaotic, Didier Sornette's research is focused on finding out whether they are, in fact, predictable. They may happen often as a surprise, he suggests, but they don't come out of the blue the most extreme risks (and gains) are what he calls dragon kings that almost always result from a visible drift toward a critical instability. In his hypothesis, this instability has measurable technical and/or socio-economical precursors. As he says Crises are not external shocks. An expert on complex systems, Sornette is the chair of entrepreneurial risk at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, and director of the Financial Crisis Observatory, a project to test the hypothesis that markets can be predictable, especially during bubbles. He's the author of Why Stock Markets Crash Critical Events in Complex Financial Systems .,“Didier Sornette has immersed his life in risk.” — Wall Street Journal
Manal ,al-Sharif,A Saudi woman who dared to drive,Women’s rights activist,manal-alsharif.com,,In May 2011, Manal al-Sharif filmed herself driving a car in Saudi Arabia, where women are prohibited from driving. She posted the video on YouTube, called on women to participate in a Women2Drive campaign on June 17 of that year, and attracted 12,000 fans to a Facebook page she’d collaborated on called Teach Me How to Drive So I Can Protect Myself. During a second turn at the wheel, she was arrested. Nine days -- and a groundswell of protest -- later she was released from jail. Al-Sharif, an information technology consultant, remains active in the women right's movement. She has broadened her campaign to focus on guardianship annulment and family protection as well as driving rights, and has founded several groups throughout Saudi Arabia with the title My rights, my dignity.,“Manal al-Sharif is following in a long tradition of women activists around the world who have put themselves on the line to expose and challenge discriminatory laws and policies.” — Malcolm Smart, Amnesty International News
Daniel, Suarez,The kill decision shouldn't belong to a robot,Sci-fi author,thedaemon.com,,While working as a software developer, Daniel Suarez self-published Daemon , a cyber-thriller depicting a future where society is radically reshaped by disruptive technologies. It struck a chord -- and so did the sequel, Freedom (TM) -- rocketing Suarez into the pantheon of sci-fi prophets. In his 2012 novel Kill Decision , Suarez digs into the consequences of technology that’s here to stay autonomous bots and drones programmed to be lethal. Suarez argues that as we cede more control to software, we gamble with the very essence of democracy itself. How can we establish sane guidelines for technology that could easily outstrip our control?,“'Kill Decision' is an eyes-wide-open, eyebrows raised, head shaking warning. The book may have come to a satisfactory end ... but the real story is unfolding as you read this, with technologies both real and under development.” — Wired
George, Papandreou,Imagine a European democracy without borders,Former Prime Minister of Greece,papandreou.gr,,George Papandreou, a third-generation scion of Greece’s defining political dynasty, entered the global spotlight with his attempts to re-invent his country during the darkest hours of the European debt crisis. Upon becoming Prime Minister in 2009, his government inherited a deficit that was much larger than had been reported. As PM, he implemented major changes and reforms, but was overtaken by events beyond his government's control.,Papandreou resigned his Prime Minister post in November 2011 as part of a deal to pave the way for a coalition government to restore Grecian stability, but remains a powerful figure as an MP and as President of the Socialist International.
Raffaello, D'Andrea,The astounding athletic power of quadcopters,Autonomous systems visionary,raffaello.name,,Raffaello D'Andrea combines academics, business and the arts to explore the capabilities of autonomous systems. As part of his research as professor of dynamic systems and control at the Swiss federal institute of technology, he and his collaborators created works such as the self-destructing, self-assembling Robotic Chair, and designed a system that allowed quadrirotor drones to construct a 6-meter tower, brick by brick. The Flying Machine Arena he and his team created features airborne robots performing acrobatics, juggling balls and more, while the Distributed Flight Array is a flying platform consisting of multiple autonomous vehicles that are able to dock with their peers and fly in a coordinated fashion. His explorations also have practical business applications. He co-founded Kiva Systems, a robotics company that develops intelligent automated warehouse systems, and which was recently acquired by Amazon.,“Among the things D'Andrea tries to instill in students is working well in groups, which will no doubt help them become better engineers.” — Cornell Chronicles
Andrew, McAfee,What will future jobs look like?,Management theorist,andrewmcafee.org,,Andrew McAfee studies the ways that information technology (IT) affects businesses, business as a whole, and the larger society. His research investigates how IT changes the way companies perform, organize themselves and compete. At a higher level, his work also investigates how computerization affects competition, society, the economy and the workforce.,He's a principal research scientist at the Center for Digital Business at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His books include Enterprise 2.0 and Race Against the Machine (with Erik Brynjolfsson). Read more on his blog .
Martin, Villeneuve,How I made an impossible film,Graphic artist, director,https//www.bulbapp.com/MartinVilleneuve,,The musician who plays otherworldly music on one-of-a-kind instruments, the genius who designs the instruments inspired by a woman's body, and the photographer they both love. An old-fashioned love triangle is at the heart of Mars et Avril , a bold and dreamy sci-fi story set in a future Montreal where the Champ-de-Mars subway line takes you right out to Mars. While many sci-fi films have budgets exceeding $100 million, this incredible arthouse version was made for just $2 million thanks to the bold creativity of filmmaker Martin Villeneuve.,By taking his time on the project, asking the best creatives for favors and approaching problems as exciting challenges, Villeneuve has made a movie that seemed impossible. The film has shown at festivals, and is available on DVD . Villeneuve is currently working on securing international distribution for the work.
Denise, Herzing,Could we speak the language of dolphins?,Dolphin researcher,wilddolphinproject.org,,What better way to study an animal than in its natural habitat? Since 1985, Denise Herzing has been doing just that, spending each summer observing a pod of Atlantic spotted dolphins that live in the Bahamas as part of the Wild Dolphin Project . The work allows Herzing to better understand the pod's social structure, behavior, communication and habitat outside the confines of an aquarium or research facility. Perhaps most remarkable is Herzing’s collaborative effort to design, build and use an interactive device to let humans communicate with the free-ranging dolphins. The 2011 book Dolphin Diaries tells her remarkable story.,“On certain moonlit nights along the Bahamas coral reefs, you may see Denise gracefully swimming her way out to sea.” — Ralph Helfer, Dolphin Diaries
Anas, Aremeyaw Anas,How I named, shamed and jailed,Undercover journalist,anasaremeyawanas.org/,,Working in Ghana and across the African continent, Anas Aremeyaw Anas is an undercover journalist and private eye. In disguise, he finds his way into asylums, brothels and villages, where he methodically gathers evidence for hard-hitting stories -- then presents the evidence to authorities to see criminals prosecuted.,His work on human trafficking won him the US State Department Hero Award in 2008. In President Barack Obama's 2009 policy address in Ghana, he singled out Anas and commended him as a courageous journalist who risked his life to report the truth.” His investigation in “ Mad House ” of a Ghanaian psychiatric ward led to a widespread awareness of mental health issues in Ghana and the passage of the 2012 Ghana Mental Health Act. His exposé of a trafficking ring in “Chinese Sex Mafia” led to three human traffickers receiving a 41-year jail sentence, while  Spell of the Albino , produced as part of Al-Jazeera's Africa Investigates series, led to widespread awareness of a sinister trade in body parts. “ Enemies of the Nation ,” which uncovered corruption at Ghana’s Tema Harbor, led to the recovery of $200 million in state funds.
Alex, Laskey,How behavioral science can lower your energy bill,Energy software maker,Opower.com,,What's a powerful way to help people use less power at home? Pit them against their neighbors. As founder and president of Opower, Alex Laskey helps utlity companies show customers, right on their utility bills, where their own house sits on the spectrum of neighborhood energy wasters -- and how to beat the game. It seems silly, but the large-scale reductions in energy usage are no joke.,Opower works with more than 80 utilities on three continents, and serves over 15 million customers. Since its launch in 2008, it has cumulatively saved utility customers more than $200 million and 2 terawatt hours (TWh) of energy -- enough to power a city of more than a quarter million people. It's all through a powerful combination of behavioral science, data analytics and good marketing.
Andrew, Solomon,Love, no matter what,Writer,AndrewSolomon.com,,Andrew Solomon's 2012 book, Far From the Tree Parents, Children, and the Search for Identity , tells the stories of parents who not only learn to deal with their exceptional children, but also find profound meaning in doing so. Solomon’s startling proposition is that diversity is what unites us. He writes about families coping with deafness, dwarfism, Down syndrome, autism, schizophrenia, multiple severe disabilities, with children who are prodigies, who are conceived in rape, who become criminals, who are transgender. Their struggles toward compassion and the triumphs of love -- so very different, yet sharing profound common links -- are documented in every chapter.,Woven into these courageous and affirming stories is Solomon’s journey to accepting his own identity, which culminated in his midlife decision, influenced by this research, to become a parent. Solomon’s previous book, The Noonday Demon An Atlas of Depression, won the 2001 National Book Award for nonfiction.
Lisa, Bu,How books can open your mind,Passionate reader,lisa-bu.blogspot.com,,At TED's annual staff retreat, everyone has to get up and talk about something -- either about work, or about something interesting from their own lives. In fall 2012, our own Lisa Bu prepared a talk about her love of reading. And our quiet, funny and efficient Content Distribution Manager simply brought down the house, with a story that's too good not to share. We are thrilled and proud that Lisa is the first TED staffer ever to be invited to speak on the mainstage at the TED Conference. Born and raised in Hunan, China, Lisa Bu has been with TED since 2011. Before that, she spent seven years as a talk show producer and a digital media content director at Wisconsin Public Radio. She's also a computer programmer, with a PhD in journalism and an MBA in information systems from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, as well as a BA in Chinese from Nanjing University in China.,“To participate is to say 'yes' to life, to join the force of life.” — Lisa Bu, on voting for the first time
Hendrik, Poinar,Bring back the woolly mammoth!,Evolutionary geneticist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/hendrik,,As a child Hendrik Poinar never imagined that the insects his father kept around the house, extinct and preserved in amber, could someday be brought to life. Well that's exactly what Poinar has devoted his career to doing. Today he is a molecular evolutionary geneticist and biological anthropologist at McMaster University in Ontario, where he is the principal investigator at the Ancient DNA Centre . Poinar's focus is on extracting and preserving DNA from paleontological remains -- precisely what he thought impossible as a kid.,And Poinar's newest project is much, much bigger than those insects from his childhood He wants to bring back the woolly mammoth. In 2006 he and his team started working on sequencing the mammoth genome, based on DNA extracted from well-preserved remains found in Yukon and Siberia. With the mapping nearly complete, Poinar will next turn to engineering an animal very closely resembling the woolly mammoth.
Jackson, Katz,Violence against women—it's a men's issue,Anti-sexism educator,JacksonKatz.com,,Jackson Katz is an educator, author, filmmaker and cultural theorist who is a pioneer in the fields of gender violence prevention education and media literacy. He is co-founder of Mentors in Violence Prevention (MVP), which enlists men in the struggle to prevent men’s violence against women. Celebrating its 20th anniversary this year, MVP has become a widely used sexual and domestic violence prevention initiative in college and professional athletics across North America. Katz and his MVP colleagues have also worked extensively with schools, youth sports associations and community organizations, as well as with all major branches of the U.S. military.,Katz is the creator of popular educational videos including Tough Guise Violence, Media and the Crisis in Masculinity . He is the author of The Macho Paradox Why Some Men Hurt Women and How All Men Can Help and Leading Men Presidential Campaigns and the Politics of Manhood . He has also appeared in several documentaries, including Hip Hop Beyond Beats and Rhymes and MissRepresentation .
Paola, Antonelli,Why I brought Pac-Man to MoMA,Design curator,www.moma.org › Explore › Inside/Out,,Since she stepped back from practicing architecture in order to focus on writing about design, teaching and curating gallery exhibitions, Italian native Paola Antonelli has become a force to be reckoned with in the design world. Working at the Museum of Modern Art in New York since 1994, she is senior curator of the gallery's Architecture and Design department and, as of 2012, the museum's first ever director of research and development. Antonelli has worked on shows such as  Humble Masterpieces , which celebrated traditionally unheralded design icons such as the paperclip,  Design and the Elastic Mind , considering the relationship of design and technology, and  Talk to Me , which looked at design and the communication of people and objects.,Ever mindful that the majority of visitors to MOMA are attracted by artists such as Picasso and Matisse, Antonelli works to ensure that if they do stumble across a design-related show, they'll be both entertained and enlightened. In 2012, she led a move to acquire 14 video games for the museum's permanent collection.
Ji-Hae, Park,The violin, and my dark night of the soul,Violinist,Jihaepark.com,,Ji-Hae Park was on the fast track to violin stardom when she ... paused. Why was it simply her goal to be the best violin player in the world? Was there more to music than that? And thus she began to think differently about how to play her life. Now -- along with playing prestigious concert halls, winning prizes and making a new album for Decca called Baroque in Rock -- she makes time to play in hospitals, churches, prisons, anywhere she feels she can reach people with music. Her friendly, entertaining rearrangements of classical music invite new listeners in.,She was named The Respected Korean 2010 for her leadership and influence on the national development. She is playing on the Petrus Guarnerius 1735, Venedig on loan from the German Foundation (Deutsche-Stiftung- Musikleben) since 2003.
Alastair, Parvin,Architecture for the people by the people,Designer,www.alastairparvin.com/,,As a society we’ve never needed design thinking more,” says Alastair Parvin, but most people -- particularly those in cities of growing density and poverty -- can’t afford it. Parvin, who was trained in architecture but chooses to make a career looking for ideas beyond its conventional framework, wants to change that.,He is one of a team behind WikiHouse , an open-source construction set that allows anyone to freely share model files for structures, which can then be downloaded, printed via CNC cutting machine and easily assembled. Parvin calls WikiHouse a very early experiment, the seed of what he sees as design’s great project in the 21st century the democratization of production.
Judy, MacDonald Johnston,Prepare for a good end of life,Entrepreneur,www.goodendoflife.com/,,Judy MacDonald Johnston is the Publisher and Cofounder of Blue Lake Children's Publishing , which develops educational reading tools for preschoolers through a program called the Tessy and Tab Reading Club. Johnston's credo, love words early, and her focus on the earliest years of life, is an interesting foil for her other passion Planning for end of life. Johnston's side project, Good [End of] Life , deals not with happy babies decoding symbols, but with a much more morbid topic Death. Good [End of] Life is a set of online worksheets and practices that aim to help deal with difficult questions -- like who should speak for you if you cannot speak, and whether to fill out a do-not-resuscitate form -- before it's too late.,In the past 15 years alone Johnston has founded two other companies in addition to Blue Lake Children's Publishing PrintPaks, a children's software company, and Kibu, a social networking site for teenage girls. Previously Johnston was a Worldwide Project Marketing Manager at Hewlett Packard.
Phil, Hansen,Embrace the shake,Multimedia artist,PhilintheCircle.com,,As an art student, Phil Hansen’s intense style of pointillism led to a tremor in his hand and a diagnosis of nerve damage. Devastated, he dropped out and lost his way ... until a neurologist suggested he “embrace the shake.” That piece of advice tweaked Hansen’s point of view and sent him on a quest to invent different approaches to making art by embracing personal and universal limitations.,Hansen challenged himself to create art using unconventional materials (dandelion puffs, matches, live worms, hamburger grease) and canvases (a stack of Satrbucks cups, his torso, bananas). The resulting time-lapse videos of his creative processes are his meta-art, showing that art is action, not just results. Through an integrated view of what sparks creativity, Hansen has devoted himself to teaching others the approaches to creativity that have changed both his outlook and his artistic endeavors. You can read more in his 2012 book, Tattoo a Banana .
Peter, Singer,The why and how of effective altruism,Philosopher, ethicist,www.pwsinger.com/,,Peter Singer may be, as The New Yorker calls him, the planet’s “most influential living philosopher.” The Australian academic specializes in applied ethics, to which he takes a secular, utilitarian approach -- minimize suffering, maximize well-being. He gained recognition in the 1970s with his groundbreaking book Animal Liberation A New Ethics for Our Treatment of Animals , which questions society’s tendency to put human needs above those of members of other species. And he draws fire from critics who object to his fascinating argument in favor of an obligation to help the global poor that sets the bar so high that it means we are almost all living unethically. His defense of euthanasia and infanticide, in some circumstances, has led to protests against his lectures and to teaching position at Princeton.,But Singer’s collective body of work is more acclaimed than controversial. He has written the classic text Practical Ethics and many other books, with more in progress. He lectures at Princeton, where he is professor of bioethics, and the University of Melbourne, where he is a laureate professor. You can find dozens of brief, brilliant essays at Project Syndicate , where Singer examines the philosophical questions surrounding current topics like Obamacare, computer piracy and obesity.
Sergey ,Brin,Why Google Glass?,Google Co-founder,www.google.com,,Sergey Brin and Larry Page met in grad school at Stanford in the mid-'90s, and in 1996 started working on a search technology based around a new idea that relevant results come from context. Their technology analyzed the number of times a given website was linked to by other sites — assuming that the more links, the more relevant the site — and ranked sites accordingly. Despite being a late entrant to the search game, it now rules the web. Brin and Page's innovation-friendly office culture has spun out lucrative new products including AdSense/AdWords, Google News, Google Maps, Google Earth, and Gmail, as well as the Android mobile operating system. Now, led by Brin, Google is pursuing problems beyond the page, like the driverless car and the digital eyewear known as Google Glass .,
Jay, Silver,Hack a banana, make a keyboard!,Inventor,1derful.org,,Jay Silver is the founder/director of JoyLabz and a Maker Research Scientist at Intel Labs. With Eric Rosenbaum, he's the co-inventor of MaKey MaKey . He also runs digital prototyping workshops for many companies such as IDEO and youth centers such as Computer Clubhouses.,Silver studied electrical engineering at Georgia Tech, where he was named Engineer of the Year. He was awarded a Gates Scholarship to earn a master’s in Internet Technology from Cambridge University. He also holds a master’s in Media Arts and Sciences from MIT Media Lab where he was an NSF Fellow. At MIT Media Lab's Lifelong Kindergarten, he won a Lemelson Student Prize.
Liu, Bolin,The invisible man,Artist,www.liubolinart.com/,,Artist Liu Bolin began his Hiding in the City series in 2005, after Chinese police destroyed Suo Jia Cun, the Beijing artists' village in which he'd been working, because the government did not want artists working and living together. With the help of assistants, he painstakingly painted his clothes, face, and hair to blend into the background of a demolished studio.,Since then, the so-called Invisible Man has photographed himself fading into a variety of backgrounds all over Beijing. Spot him embedded in a Cultural Revolution slogan painted on a wall, or spy him within tiers of supermarket shelves stocked with soft drinks. Just as with Bolin himself, the contradictions and confusing narratives of China's post-Cultural Revolution society are often hiding in plain sight.
Maria, Bezaitis,The surprising need for strangeness,Computer engineer,https//www.ted.com/speakers/maria_bezaitis,,Maria Bezaitis examines the social and cultural landscape, charting new directions for technology innovation within it. At Intel, her work focuses on personal data and how it develops relationally – and what this will mean in terms of new business models, the development of new devices and interfaces, and the creation of better security technologies.,Maria joined Intel in June 2006 to direct the People and Practices Research Group. She also played a leadership role at the cutting-edge social research and design organizations, E-Lab and Sapient Corporation. A longtime literature student, Bezaitis finished her Ph.D at Duke University in French Literature.
Meg, Jay,Why 30 is not the new 20,Clinical psychologist,drmegjay.com,,Lately it feels as if 25 is just a bit too young to get serious. In her psychology practice, and her book The Defining Decade , clinical psychologist Meg Jay suggests that many twentysomethings have been caught in a swirl of hype and misinformation about what Time magazine calls the  Me Me Me Generation . The rhetoric that 30 is the new 20, she suggests, trivializes what is actually the most transformative period of our adult lives. Drawing from more than ten years of work with hundreds of twentysomething clients and students, Jay weaves science together with compelling, behind-closed-doors stories. The result is a provocative, poignant read that shows us why, far from being an irrelevant downtime, our twenties are a developmental sweetspot that comes only once. Our twenties are a time when the things we do -- and the things we don’t do -- will have an enormous effect across years and even generations to come.,Jay is a clinical psychologist who specializes in adult development, and in twentysomethings in particular. She is an assistant clinical professor at the University of Virginia and maintains a private practice in Charlottesville, Virginia. She spent her own early twentysomething years as an Outward Bound instructor.
Ken,Robinson,How to escape education's death valley,Author/educator,sirkenrobinson.com,,Why don't we get the best out of people? Sir Ken Robinson argues that it's because we've been educated to become good workers, rather than creative thinkers. Students with restless minds and bodies -- far from being cultivated for their energy and curiosity -- are ignored or even stigmatized, with terrible consequences. We are educating people out of their creativity, Robinson says. It's a message with deep resonance. Robinson's TEDTalk has been distributed widely around the Web since its release in June 2006. The most popular words framing blog posts on his talk? Everyone should watch this.,A visionary cultural leader, Sir Ken led the British government's 1998 advisory committee on creative and cultural education, a massive inquiry into the significance of creativity in the educational system and the economy , and was knighted in 2003 for his achievements. His 2009 book, The Element How Finding Your Passion Changes Everything , is a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 21 languages. A 10th anniversary edition of his classic work on creativity and innovation, Out of Our Minds Learning to be Creative , was published in 2011. His latest book, Finding Your Element How to Discover Your Talents and Passions and Transform Your Life , will be published by Viking in May 2013.
Angela, Lee Duckworth,The key to success? Grit,Psychologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/angela_lee_duckworth,,In her late 20s, Angela Lee Duckworth left a demanding job as a management consultant at McKinsey to teach math in public schools in San Francisco, Philadelphia and New York.,After five years of teaching seventh graders, she went back to grad school to complete her Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Pennsylvania, where she is now an assistant professor in the psychology department. Her research subjects include students, West Point cadets, and corporate salespeople, all of whom she studies to determine how grit is a better indicator of success than factors such as IQ or family income.
John, Legend,True Colors,Musician, activist,johnlegend.com,,Known for his signature vocals and songwriting style, John Legend has released a string of platinum-selling albums, including Get Lifted (2004), Once Again (2006), and Evolver (2008). In 2010, Legend and the legendary hip-hop band The Roots released Wake Up! (2010), a compilation of music from the '60s and '70s with an underlying theme of awareness, engagement and social consciousness -- with tracks like Little Ghetto Boy by Donny Hathaway and Baby Huey and the Babysitters' Hard Times. Wake Up! also includes John’s original composition Shine, featured in Waiting for ‘Superman .’ His most recent album, Love in the Future , was released in 2013. Throughout his career, Legend has worked to make a difference in the lives of others. In 2007, he launched the Show Me Campaign , an organization that works to break the cycle of poverty through education. He sits on the boards of Teach for America, Stand for Children and the Harlem Village Academies. He serves on the Advisory Council for Turnaround and is an “IRC Voice” for the International Rescue Committee. John is also the national spokesperson for Management Leadership for Tomorrow, a nonprofit organization that assists the next generation of minority business leaders. Before his musical career, Legend was himself a management consultant at BCG.,“#tedtalksed so inspiring. John Legend singing True Colors made me a little misty eyed.” — @akaJalex on Twitter
Geoffrey, Canada,Our failing schools. Enough is enough!,Education reformer,hcz.org/,,Geoffrey Canada grew up in an impoverished neighborhood in the South Bronx, with a mother who believed deeply in education. So upon getting his degree from Bowdoin College and continuing on to a masters in education from Harvard, Canada dedicated himself to working with kids in poor neighborhoods. In 1983, he accepted a position at the Rheedlen Institute in Harlem as education director. Seven years later, he became president and renamed it the Harlem Children's Zone.,While the Harlem Children’s Zone started out focusing on a single block -- West 119th Street -- it has since expanded exponentially. It now encompasses more than 100 square blocks and serves an estimated 10,000 children, providing pre-kindergarten care, after-school programs, health care, college planning and classes for soon-to-be-parents.
Malcolm, London,“High School Training Ground”,Poet, performer, activist,malcolmlondon.com/,,This poet wields a dynamic spirit for speaking engagements utilizing his feisty and passionate performances as words of encourage for next generations to tell their stories. In 2011, Malcolm London won the Louder than a Bomb youth poetry slam in his native Chicago, scooping the top award as both individual performer and with a team. The poet, performer and activist has performed on stages throughout his home city as well as across the United States. A member of the Young Adult Council of the prestigious Steppenwolf Theater, London brings vim and vigor to his energetic performances tackling tough contemporary issues head-on. He wrote & directed a spoken word0infused play responding to the Zimmerman verdict called Two Years Later, and,London attends University of Illinois at Chicago & is a member & co-chair of BYP100 Chicago Chapter, a national organization of black activists & organizers. Deeply interested in working on ways to improve the national education system, London regularly visits high schools, youth jails, colleges and communities to work with students on writing workshops and performances. London is currently devoted to being a youth advocate & coordinator of The Know Your Rights Project out of Northwestern Law School, a project dedicated to educating young people on their rights within the juvenile justice system, & continuing his work as teaching artist on staff at Young Chicago Authors, a program working to transform the lives of young people by cultivating their voices through writing, publication and performance education. His work has been featured on national outlets including CBS, NPR, The Huffington Post , The Root, and the Chicago Tribune.
Pearl, Arredondo,My story, from gangland daughter to star teacher,Teacher,www.sfiam.org/,,Pearl Arredondo grew up in the impoverished East Los Angeles neighborhood of Boyle Heights. She was raised by a single-mother, a long time Los Angeles Unified School District office secretary, who saw firsthand the challenges facing students in public schools. To ensure that she got the best education in the district, Arredondo was bussed to schools almost an hour away from home.,Arredondo graduated and moved on to Pepperdine University, where she received both a Bachelor of Arts and a Master of Arts in Education and Instructional Leadership. She was the first in her family to graduate from college and began her teaching career at San Fernando Middle School (SFMS) -- the very middle school she attended eight years prior.
Ramsey, Musallam,3 rules to spark learning,Educator,RamseyMusallam.com,,Technological innovation in education can be a slow and painful process, with new technology difficult to acquire, implement and adopt. But that doesn't stop Ramsey Musallam, a chemistry teacher at Sacred Heart Cathedral Prep in San Francisco, whose mission is to meaningfully integrate multimedia into a hands-on, inquiry-based learning cycle and to empower other educators to do the same. Musallam is a vocal advocate for tools like flipteaching, tabcasting, video podcasting and screencasting in the classroom. He runs the education blog Cycles of Learning , where he gives written and video tutorials on how to turn everyday apps like Google Docs, screencasting from an iOS device, YouTube, KeepVid and word clouds as effective teaching tools. Musallam received an Ed.D. from the University of San Francisco in 2010.,
Bill ,Gates,Teachers need real feedback,Philanthropist,gatesfoundation.org,,Bill Gates is the founder and former CEO of Microsoft. A geek icon, tech visionary and business trailblazer, Gates' leadership -- fueled by his long-held dream that millions might realize their potential through great software -- made Microsoft a personal computing powerhouse and a trendsetter in the Internet dawn. Whether you're a suit, chef, quant, artist, media maven, nurse or gamer, you've probably used a Microsoft product today. In summer of 2008, Gates left his day-to-day role with Microsoft to focus on philanthropy. Holding that all lives have equal value (no matter where they're being lived) , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has now donated staggering sums to HIV/AIDS programs, libraries, agriculture research and disaster relief -- and offered vital guidance and creative funding to programs in global health and education. Gates believes his tech-centric strategy for giving will prove the killer app of planet Earth's next big upgrade.,Read a collection of Bill and Melinda Gates' annual letters , where they take stock of the Gates Foundation and the world. And follow his ongoing thinking on his personal website, The Gates Notes . His new paper, The Next Epidemic, is published by the New England Journal of Medicine.
ShaoLan,ShaoLan,Learn to read Chinese ... with ease!,Technologist, entrepreneur,chineasy.org,,Born in Taipei and now living in London, ShaoLan is an entrepreneur, investor, writer, traveller and dreamer. ShaoLan has had several dramatic changes of career in the past. While studying for an MBA she wrote four best-selling books on software, awarded “book of the year” in Taiwan. In her second semester she co-founded her first venture, pAsia Inc. Under her leadership pAsia became a major player in the internet sector in the Greater China area in the late 1990’s. After moving to London she began investing in and advising young technology companies through Caravel Capital, which she founded in 2005 whilst studying at the University of Cambridge. She has also been a director of five UK-based technology companies.,After taking a sabbatical, she is now focused on sharing a new method of learning Chinese Chineasy , described as a visual-based learning system that teaches Chinese characters, simple stories & phrases. Our aim is to bring down the great wall of Chinese language.
Timothy, Bartik,The economic case for preschool,Economist,investinginkids.net/,,In his 2011 book Investing in Kids Early Childhood Programs and Local Economic Development , Timothy Bartik walks through the outsize benefits of educating children early -- not just educational benefits to the kids themselves, but measureable economic development that, in some cases, can outweigh other kinds of business incentives. (Curious? Download several sample chapters .),Based at the Upjohn Institute in Michigan, Bartik studies regional economies and local labor markets, asking questions about job-creation programs, business incentives and the way government policies (such as tax credits, right-to-work laws and environmental regulations) have on business growth. He's the co-editor of Economic Development Quarterly The Journal of American Economic Revitalization .
Rita, Pierson,Every kid needs a champion,Educator,www.huffingtonpost.com/news/rita-pierson/,,Rita F. Pierson, a professional educator since 1972, taught elementary school, junior high and special education. She was a counselor, a testing coordinator and an assistant principal. In each of these roles, she brought a special energy to the role -- a desire to get to know her students, show them how much they matter and support them in their growth, even if it was modest.,For the past decade, Pierson conducted professional development workshops and seminars for thousands of educators. Focusing on the students who are too often under-served, she lectured on topics like “Helping Under-Resourced Learners,”“Meeting the Educational Needs of African American Boys and Engage and Graduate your Secondary Students Preventing Dropouts.
Juan, Enriquez,Your online life, permanent as a tattoo,Futurist,excelvm.com,,A broad thinker who studies the intersection of science, business and society, Juan Enriquez has a talent for bridging disciplines to build a coherent look ahead. Enriquez was the founding director of the Harvard Business School Life Sciences Project , and has published widely on topics from the technical (global nucleotide data flow) to the sociological (gene research and national competitiveness), and was a member of Celera Genomics founder Craig Venter 's marine-based team to collect genetic data from the world's oceans.,Formerly CEO of Mexico City's Urban Development Corporation and chief of staff for Mexico's secretary of state, Enriquez played a role in reforming Mexico's domestic policy and helped negotiate a cease-fire with Zapatista rebels. He is a Managing Director at Excel Medical Ventures , a life sciences venture capital firm, and the chair and CEO of Biotechonomy , a research and investment firm helping to fund new genomics firms. The Untied States of America looks at the forces threatening America's future as a unified country.
Sebastião, Salgado,The silent drama of photography,Photojournalist,www.amazonasimages.com,,A gold miner in Serra Pelada, Brazil, a Siberian Nenet tribe that lives in -35°C temperatures, a Namibian gemsbok antelope. These are just a few of the subjects from Sebastião Salgado’s immense collection of work devoted to the world’s most dispossessed and unknown.,Brazilian-born Salgado, who shoots only using Kodak film, is known for his incredibly long-term projects, which require extensive travel and extreme lifestyle changes. Workers took seven years to complete and contained images of manual laborers from 26 countries, while Migrations took six years in 43 different countries on all seven continents. Most recently Salgado completed Genesis , an ambitious eight-year project that spanned 30 trips to the world’s most pristine territories, land untouched by technology and modern life. Among Salgado’s many travels for Genesis was a two-month hike through Ethiopia, spanning 500 miles with 18 pack donkeys and their riders. In the words of Brett Abbott, a Getty Museum curator, Salgado’s approach can only be described as “epic.”
Taylor, Wilson,My radical plan for small nuclear fission reactors,Nuclear scientist,www.sciradioactive.com,,Physics wunderkind Taylor Wilson astounded the science world when, at age 14, he became the youngest person in history to produce fusion. The University of Nevada-Reno offered a home for his early experiments when Wilson’s worried parents realized he had every intention of building his reactor in the garage. Wilson now intends to fight nuclear terror in the nation's ports, with a homemade radiation detector priced an order of magnitude lower than most current devices. In 2012, Wilson's dreams received a boost when he became a recipient of the $100,000 Thiel Prize . Wilson now intends revolutionize the way we produce energy, fight cancer, and combat terrorism using nuclear technology.,“Kenneth asked a nuclear-pharmacist friend to come over to check on Taylor’s safety practices. As far as he could tell, the friend said, the boy was getting it right. ” — Tom Clynes, Popular Science
Nilofer, Merchant,Got a meeting? Take a walk,Corporate director, author,nilofermerchant.com,,Nilofer Merchant has been helping to grow businesses -- from Fortune 500s to web startups -- for 20 years. She’s worked for major companies (like Apple and Autodesk) and early web startups (remember Golive?). Logitech, Symantec, HP, Yahoo, VMWare, and many others have turned to her guidance to develop new product strategies, enter new markets, defend against competitors and optimize revenue.,Today she serves on boards for both public and private companies, and writes books about collaboration, like The New How Creating Business Solutions Through Collaborative Strategy , and openness -- check out her recent ebook 11 Rules for Creating Value in the #SocialEra , chosen by Fast Company as one of the Best Business Books of 2012. She also writes for HBR , including the personal and brave essay about a previous attempt on the TED stage  What I Learned from My TED Talk .
David, Pogue,10 top time-saving tech tips,Technology columnist,davidpogue.com/,,Which cell phone to choose? What software to buy? Are camera-binoculars a necessity or novelty? As release cycles shorten and ever-shrinking gadgets hit the market with dizzying speed, it's harder and harder to know what's worth the investment. A tireless explorer of everyday technology, David Pogue investigates all the options so we don't have to.,After happily weathering installation nightmares, customer service hiccups, and an overwhelming crush of backups, upgrades and downloads, Pogue reports back with his recommendations via his many columns , TV appearances and how-to books . And he does it all with relatable insight, humor and an unsinkable sense of pun, er, fun . All that, and he sings, too.
Jennifer, Healey,If cars could talk, accidents might be avoidable,Research scientist,Discovery.com,,Jennifer Healey imagines a future where computers and smartphones are capable of being sensitive to human emotions and where cars are able to talk to each other, and thus keep their drivers away from accidents. A scientist at Intel Corporation Research Labs, she researches devices and systems that would allow for these major innovations.,Healey holds PhD from MIT in electrical engineering and computer science. While there, she pioneered “Affective Computing” with Rosalind Picard and developed the first wearable computer with physiological sensors and a video camera that allows the wearer to track their daily activities and how they feel while doing them. From there, she moved to IBM where she worked on the next generation of multi-modal interactive smartphones and helped architect the Interaction Mark-Up language that allows users to switch from voice to speech input seamlessly.
Michael, Stevens,How much does a video weigh?,YouTube educator,www.msi-re.com/,,Michael Stevens is an educator -- but when he answers questions, 3.2 million people tune in to hear the answer. That's because Stevens is the creator and host of Vsauce , an educational YouTube channel that addresses quirky but intriguing topics like The Science of the Friend Zone and What Is Déjà vu? Stevens has made a career feeding popular hunger for cool and interesting facts.,“Vsauce’s audience is a testament to how hungry people are to learn and how excited they are to share what they’ve discovered. ... A silly or mundane topic can quickly become mind-blowing if you look closer, read a lot, and let your curiosity go crazy.” — Michael Stevens
Erik, Brynjolfsson,The key to growth? Race with the machines,Innovation researcher,raceagainstthemachine.com/,,The director of the MIT Center for Digital Business and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, Erik Brynjolfsson asks how IT affects organizations, markets and the economy. His recent work studies data-driven decision-making, management practices that drive productivity, the pricing implications of Internet commerce and the role of intangible assets. Brynjolfsson was among the first researchers to measure the productivity contributions of information and community technology (ICT) and the complementary role of organizational capital and other intangibles. His research also provided the first quantification of the value of online product variety, often known as the “Long Tail,” and developed pricing and bundling models for information goods.,His books include Wired for Innovation How IT Is Reshaping the Economy and Race Against the Machine How the Digital Revolution Is Accelerating Innovation, Driving Productivity and Irreversibly Transforming Employment and the Economy (with Andrew McAfee), and the recent article  Big Data The Management Revolution  (with Andrew McAfee).
Robert, Gordon,The death of innovation, the end of growth,Economist,northwestern.edu/economics/gordon/,,Robert J. Gordon has written prolifically about the problems facing contemporary economic growth, casting a sobering doubt on the ability of our current innovations (what he calls the third industrial revolution, including all our fancy gadgets) to power the economy the way previous waves of invention. In a recent paper, he suggests that the repeated doubling of economic growth that characterized the 20th century and was arguably the bedrock for modern society may be decelerating at an alarming rate -- especially for the bottom 99 percent of the income distribution. While innovation is continuing apace, he sees the economy buffeted by six headwinds, and a different mix of obstacles for the US economy than for Canada and Europe.,Over the past four decades, he's also done fascinating work on the economics of the airline industry. He's authored hundreds of scholarly articles and five books, including his most recent, Productivity Growth, Inflation, and Unemployment The Collected Essays of Robert J. Gordon , as well as the textbook Macroeconomics , now in its 12th edition. Two key papers to start  Is US economic growth over? Faltering innovation confronts the six headwinds , NBER Working Paper 18315, and “ Why Innovation Won’t Save Us ,” from the Wall Street Journal .
John, McWhorter,Txtng is killing language. JK!!!,Linguist,www.manhattan-institute.org/,,John McWhorter studies how language has evolved -- and will evolve -- with social, historical and technological developments, in addition to studying and writing about race in America.,In recent work, he’s been urging grammarians to think of email and text messages not as the scourge of the English language but as “fingered speech,” a new form between writing and talking. These digital missives, despite their “shaggy construction,” represent an exciting new form of communication in which “lol” and “hey” are particles, he suggests, and written thoughts can be shared at the speed of talking. Should we worry that knowing how to parse haha kk means we'll lose the ability to read Proust? No, he told the TED Blog  Generally there’s always been casual speech and formal speech, and people can keep the two in their heads.
Black,BLACK,My journey to yo-yo mastery,Yo-yo champion,OfficeBlack.com,,At 14, BLACK picked up his first yo-yo. Initially he couldn't do even the easiest trick -- but after one week of practicing, he realized I could be good at this. Very good. Four years later (and 10,000 hours of practicing), he took the title of 2001 world champion. And then ... he gave it up. Went to school, got a job. But he missed the passion of performing. He realized I want to do this  Entertain, and bring excitement and joy to people with the yo-yo.,Returning to competition after six years, he won the 2007 World Yo-Yo Contest in the artistic performance category. After that, he started dance and acrobatic training to create a new form of performing and art. Imagine a yo-yo performance graceful and thrilling enough to pass the audition for Cirque du Soleil ... while being fast and precise enough to pull a tablecloth out from under a stack of champagne glasses!
Andres, Lozano,Parkinson's, depression and the switch that might turn them off,Neurosurgeon,andres-lozano.com/,,Andres Lozano remembers the most satisfying case of his career – helping a boy with a genetic form of dystonia which had twisted his body to the point where he was only able to crawl on his stomach. While he didn’t respond to drugs, he responded wonderfully to deep brain stimulation. Three months after surgery, he was walking like a normal child. He’s now a college student leading a normal life.,Lozano is a pioneer in deep brain stimulation. His team has mapped out areas of the human brain and pioneered novel surgical approaches to treat disorders like Parkinson’s disease, depression, dystonia, anorexia, Huntington’s and Alzheimer’s disease. The chairman of neurosurgery at the University of Toronto, he holds both the R.R. Tasker Chair in Functional Neurosurgery at the Krembil Neuroscience Centre and a Tier 1 Canada Research Chair in Neuroscience.
Joshua, Prager,In search of the man who broke my neck,Journalist,JoshuaPrager.com,,Joshua Prager is billed as a journalist, but he’s really a storyteller. Over a decade-plus career at the Wall Street Journal , where he began as a news assistant and worked his way up to senior writer, Prager excelled in writing enthralling tales that had one thing in common They were about secrets. While at the paper, Prager uncovered the world’s only anonymous Pulitzer Prize winner, the unknown heir of the author of the children’s book Goodnight Moon , and the hidden backstory of how the 1951 New York Giants baseball team cheated their way to infamy, as told in his book The Echoing Green .,Today, Prager is focused on a personal story the 1990 bus accident that left him a hemiplegic at age 19. His new book, Half-Life , about the accident, explores identity and what it means to live a life changed in a single moment.
Thomas, Insel,Toward a new understanding of mental illness,Neuroscientist and psychiatrist,www.nimh.nih.gov/about/director/bio/,,Thomas Insel has seen many advances in the understanding of mental disorders since becoming the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) in 2002. During his tenure, major breakthroughs have been made in the areas of practical clinical trials, autism research and the role of genetics in mental illnesses.,Prior to his appointment at the NIMH, Insel was a professor of psychiatry at Emory University, studying the neurobiology of complex social behaviors. While there, he was the founding director of the NSF Center for Behavioral Neuroscience and director of the NIH-funded Center for Autism Research. He has published over 250 scientific articles and four books and has served on numerous academic, scientific, and professional committees and boards. He is a member of the Institute of Medicine, a fellow of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology, and a recipient of the Outstanding Service Award from the U.S. Public Health Service and the 2010 La Fondation IPSEN Neuronal Plasticity Prize.
Rose, George,Let's talk crap. Seriously.,Curious journalist,rosegeorge.com,,Rose George thinks, researches, writes and talks about the hidden, the undiscussed. Among the everyone-does-it-no-one-talks-about-it issues she's explored in books and articles sanitation (and poop in general). Diarrhea is a weapon of mass destruction, says the UK-based journalist and author, and a lack of access to toilets is at the root of our biggest public health crisis. In 2012, two out of five of the world’s population had nowhere sanitary to go.,The key to turning around this problem, says George Let’s drop the pretense of “water-related diseases” and call out the cause of myriad afflictions around the world as what they are -- “poop-related diseases” that are preventable with a basic toilet. George explores the problem in her book The Big Necessity The Unmentionable World of Human Waste and Why It Matters and in a fabulous special issue of Colors magazine called  Shit A Survival Guide . Read a sample chapter of The Big Necessity >>
Laura, Snyder,The Philosophical Breakfast Club,Science historian,LauraJSnyder.com,,A work of history should be more than a collection of happenings, at least from Laura Snyder’s perspective. The Fulbright Scholar, historian of science and professor of philosophy at St. John's University believes histories should aim not only to tell a story, but also to transport a reader through time.,Snyder’s work presents three-dimensional characters that readers connect with. Her most recent book, The Philosophical Breakfast Club , traces the friendship of four 19th-century scientists who met at Cambridge Charles Babbage (mathematics and computing), William Whewell (math economics), John Herschel (astronomy and photography) and Richard Jones (economy). Inspired by Francis Bacon's ideas, they coined the word “scientist” and were central in transforming science from the province of the amateur (practitioners were until then called natural philosophers) to a professional system.
Eric, Dishman,Health care should be a team sport,Social scientist,https//communities.intel.com/community/healthcare/blog,,Eric Dishman is an Intel Fellow and general manager of Intel's Health Strategy & Solutions Group. He founded the product research and innovation team responsible for driving Intel’s worldwide healthcare research, new product innovation, strategic planning, and health policy and standards activities.,Dishman is recognized globally for driving healthcare reform through home and community-based technologies and services, with a focus on enabling independent living for seniors. His work has been featured in The New York Times , Washington Post and Businessweek , and The Wall Street Journal named him one of “12 People Who Are Changing Your Retirement.” He has delivered keynotes on independent living for events such as the annual Consumer Electronics Show, the IAHSA International Conference and the National Governors Association. He has published numerous articles on independent living technologies and co-authored government reports on health information technologies and health reform.
Dan, Ariely,What makes us feel good about our work?,Behavioral economist,predictablyirrational.com,,Dan Ariely is a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University and a founding member of the Center for Advanced Hindsight. He is the author of the bestsellers Predictably Irrational , The Upside of Irrationality , and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty . Through his research and his (often amusing and unorthodox) experiments, he questions the forces that influence human behavior and the irrational ways in which we often all behave.,“If you want to know why you always buy a bigger television than you intended, or why you think it's perfectly fine to spend a few dollars on a cup of coffee at Starbucks, or why people feel better after taking a 50-cent aspirin but continue to complain of a throbbing skull when they're told the pill they took just cost one penny, Ariely has the answer.” — Daniel Gross, Newsweek
Keller, Rinaudo,A mini robot — powered by your phone,Robotics entrepreneur,Romotive.com,,Keller Rinaudo founded Romotive alongside friends Phu Nguyen and Peter Seid. The startup makes Romo, an adorable miniature robot that harnesses the the powerful processor in every smartphone. Something between a personal robot and a pet, Romo has a personality thanks to controllable facial expressions and is able to roll around on a tank-like base. As CEO of Romotive, Rinaudo sets the strategic direction of the company, raises funds needed to scale quickly and focuses on growing the team through recruiting.,A 2009 Harvard graduate, Rinaudo worked with Dr. Yaakov Benenson and colleagues on biological computers -- tiny devices made of RNA, DNA and proteins that, when implanted in the body, could work as molecular doctors signaling genes in need of treatment. Rinaudo is also a professional rock climber ranked top 10 in sport climbing. He has scaled alpine cliffs in France, underwater caves in Kentucky and the limestone towers of Yangshuo, China.
Freeman, Hrabowski,4 pillars of college success in science,Educator,president.umbc.edu,,During his 20-year run as president of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) , Freeman Hrabowski has transformed a young university into a research institution recognized as one of the most innovative in the country. His goal continue building a campus that’s first-rate in research and instruction, and that prepares students of all backgrounds for success. Hrabowski cofounded the Meyerhoff Scholars Program for high-achieving minority students in science and engineering, the program has become a national model. Hrabowski frequently writes about minority participation and performance in these areas. He advises President Obama on educational issues and consults for the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, and National Academies. A tireless educator, leader and mentor, Hrabowski was named one of world’s most influential people in 2012 by Time magazine.,“This midsize state university has earned a reputation as one of the most innovative schools in the country.” — 60 Minutes, November 13, 2011
Ken, Jennings,Watson, Jeopardy and me, the obsolete know-it-all,Know-it-all,Ken-Jennings.com,,Ken Jennings loves facts. When he was a kid he followed his parents around reciting whatever new fact he had learned -- Haley's comet or giant squids or the size of the world's biggest pumpkin pie or whatever it was -- to no end. And his natural curiosity paid off. Today Jennings holds the record for most consecutive wins on the trivia game show Jeopardy , with an astounding 74 wins. (At one point Jennings also held the Guinness World Record for Most cash won on a game show. Not bad for a trivia nerd.),In 2011 Jennings participated in the IBM Challenge, which featured him and Jeopardy rival Brad Rutter in a match against IBM supercomputer Watson. Jennings came in second. Watson was first. But Jennings wasn't disappointed in his performance, As he wrote of his loss , I don't have 2,880 processor cores and 15 terabytes of reference works at my disposal. ... My puny human brain, just a few bucks worth of water, salts, and proteins, hung in there just fine against a jillion-dollar supercomputer.
Skylar ,Tibbits,The emergence of 4D printing,Inventor,sjet.us,,Can we create objects that assemble themselves -- that zip together like a strand of DNA or that have the ability for transformation embedded into them? These are the questions that Skylar Tibbits investigates in his Self-Assembly Lab at MIT, a cross-disciplinary research space where designers, scientists and engineers come together to find ways for disordered parts to become ordered structures.,A trained architect, designer and computer scientist, Tibbits teaches design studios at MIT’s Department of Architecture and co-teaches the seminar “How to Make (Almost) Anything” at MIT’s Media Lab. Before that, he worked at a number of design offices including Zaha Hadid Architects, Asymptote Architecture, SKIII Space Variations and Point b Design. His work has been shown at the Guggenheim Museum and the Beijing Biennale. Tibbits has collaborated with a number of influential people over the years, including Neil Gershenfeld and The Center for Bits and Atoms, Erik and Marty Demaine at MIT, Adam Bly at SEED Media Group and Marc Fornes of THEVERYMANY. In 2007, he and Marc Fornes co-curated Scriptedbypurpose , the first exhibition focused exclusively on scripted processes within design. Also in 2007, he founded SJET , a multifaceted practice and research platform for experimental computation and design. SJET crosses disciplines from architecture and design, fabrication, computer science and robotics.
Lawrence, Lessig,We the People, and the Republic we must reclaim,Legal activist,rootstrikers.org,,Lawyer and activist Lawrence Lessig spent a decade arguing for sensible intellectual property law, updated for the digital age. He was a founding board member of Creative Commons , an organization that builds better copyright practices through principles established first by the open-source software community.,In 2007, just after his last TED Talk , Lessig announced he was leaving the field of IP and Internet policy, and moving on to a more fundamental problem that blocks all types of sensible policy -- the corrupting influence of money in American politics.
Sanjay, Dastoor,A skateboard, with a boost,Roboticist,boostedboards.com,,Sanjay Dastoor met pals John Ulmen and Matthew Tran while studying engineering at Stanford University, where the three often found themselves talking about the need for a better way to get around campus. So they created one -- an electric longboard which they call Boosted Boards . The CEO of this Silicon Valley startup, which raised nearly a half million in crowdsourced funding through Kickstarter, Dastoor hopes to provide a new way to commute for those who live within a six-mile radius of work.,With his co-founders at Boosted, Dastoor participated in the Y Combinator and StartX incubator programs. He is finishing his PhD on bio-inspired robotics at Stanford, and he holds a MS from Stanford and a BS from UC Berkeley. He has also worked at NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab and SRI International.
Kees, Moeliker,How a dead duck changed my life,Ornithologist,moeliker.com,,In Kees Moeliker's career (he's now curator of the Natural History Museum Rotterdam ) he's rediscovered long-lost birds, such as the black-chinned monarch ( Monarcha boanensis ) on the remote Moluccan island of Boano in 1991. On the tiny West Papuan island of Boo he collected and named a new subspecies of fruit bat ( Macroglossus minimus booensis ).,Aaaaand he's the guy who observed and published the first scientifically documented case of homosexual necrophilia in ducks. For this, he was awarded the 2003 Ig Nobel biology prize, and that much-coveted award led him to appreciate that curiosity and humour can be powerful tools for scientists and science communicators.
Katherine, Kuchenbecker,The technology of touch,Mechanical engineer,https//www.seas.upenn.edu/directory/profile.php?ID=50,,Could technology be more touchy feely? Mechanical engineer Katherine Kuchenbecker answers this question with a resounding ‘yes.’ Kuchenbecker researches the design, control and performance of robotic systems that enable a user to touch virtual objects and distant environments as though they were real and within reach. These interfaces combine electromechanical sensors, actuators and computer control, allowing for technology that can fool the human sense of touch, otherwise known as ‘haptics.’,Imagine a tablet computer that lets you feel fabrics and textures, robotic surgical tools that let doctors use their incredibly well-honed sense of touch, video games that allow you to feel hits and computer programs that teach you the movements of a sport. By researching these areas -- as well as applications in stroke rehabilitation and assistance for the blind -- Kuchenbecker seeks to improve our understanding of touch and uncover new opportunities to use it in interactions between humans, computers and machines.
Colin, Camerer,When you're making a deal, what's going on in your brain?,Behavioral economist,https//www.macfound.org/fellows/887/,,Colin Camerer focuses on brain behavior during decision making, strategizing and market trading. He is the Robert Kirby Professor of Behavioral Finance and Economics at the California Institute of Technology. A child prodigy in his youth, Camerer received a B.A. in quantitative studies from Johns Hopkins when he was just 17 and a PhD in decision theory from the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business when he was 22. Camerer's research departs from previous theory in that it does not assume the mind to be a rational and perfect system, but rather focuses on the limitations of everyday people when they play actual games, and seeks to predict how they will behave in situations that involve strategy. His studies focus on neurological findings from economic experiments in the lab (on humans -- and monkeys!) Camerer is the author of Behavioral Game Theory .,“Colin Camerer's Behavioral Game Theory is a major achievement. Nothing like it is available thus far. ... [Camerer] has taken the trouble to 'talk through' hundreds of tricky arguments that elsewhere just get stated mathematically.” — David G. Pearce
Richard, Turere,My invention that made peace with lions,Inventor,https//www.ted.com/speakers/richard_turere,,Richard Turere is a young Maasai man who lives in the wilderness of the Kenya savanna, on the edge of a national park full of rhino, giraffe, buffalo and lions. Since he was 9, Richard has held the honored chore of tending his father's cattle, in his free time, he tinkered with electrical gadgets. After dismantling the few household appliances, Richard taught himself how to fix them, and then he started inventing. He fit his parents' home with fans made from car parts and other junkyard components harvested from junkyards, then built other inventions for his neighbors.,Now 13, he is renowned for inventing lion lights, a fence made of basic pieces (solar charging cells, flashlight parts), which quickly and effectively scares lions away from his father's cattle. Richard's dream is to be an aircraft engineer.
Mark, Shaw,One very dry demo,Macroencapsulator,markshawphoto.com/,,On graduating from college, Mark Shaw saw a news broadcast on a toxic waste clean-up called Love Canal. The footage showed leaking steel drums of toxic waste being lowered into larger steel drums. It was then he was inspired to “save the world from toxic waste” and build a drum that would never leak. At 23, an economics major working out of a rented storage locker, he developed his first patent, an overpack container with resistance wiring built into the lid that would automatically heat-weld the lid to the container with the push of a button. He dubbed it “Macroencapsulation” and today, it is not only an EPA-approved treatment for hazardous waste but is also used extensively at the U.S. Department of Energy National Labs for shipping and treating mixed radioactive waste that is both chemically and radioactively hazardous. Many of his inventions and products have become the market standard worldwide. Shaw and his companies are also pioneers in the spill containment, stormwater management and spill response industries and are now bringing over 500 practical and innovative products and technologies to industry on a global basis through its 1,500 distributors covering 40 countries.,
Jessica, Green,We're covered in germs. Let's design for that.,Engineer and biodiversity scientist,JessicaLeeGreen.com,,Jessica Green, a TED2010 Fellow and TED2011 Senior Fellow, is an engineer and ecologist who specializes in biodiversity theory and microbial systems. As a professor at both the University of Oregon and the Santa Fe Institute , she is the founding director of the innovative Biology and the Built Environment (BioBE) Center that bridges biology and architecture.,Green envisions a future with genomic-driven approaches to architectural design that promote sustainability, human health and well-being. She is spearheading efforts to model buildings as complex ecosystems that house trillions of diverse microorganisms interacting with each other, with humans, and with their environment. This framework uses next-generation sequencing technology to characterize the “built environment microbiome” and will offer site-specific design solutions to minimize the spread of infectious disease and maximize building energy efficiency.
Eric, Whitacre,Virtual Choir Live,Composer, conductor,EricWhitacre.com,,Eric Whitacre began his music career singing in his college choir, by 21, he had written his first concert work, Go, Lovely Rose , and advanced to Juilliard, where he studied under John Corigliano. Today, he has published more than four dozen choral works, conducted in some of the most esteemed halls in the world, and featured on dozens of recordings. His album Cloudburst and Other Choral Works earned him a Grammy nomination in 2007, as did his Decca debut Light & Gold , while his new album, Water Night , debuted at #1 in US iTunes classical charts.,You may know him, too, as the creator and conductor of the virtual choir , a network of YouTube-connected singers whose voices blend together online to become true magic. And he's now touring with the Eric Whitacre Signers, a 28-voice choir (yes, they're all in the same room).
Francis, Collins,We need better drugs — now,Geneticist, physician,Genome.gov,,In 2000 the world saw the first working draft of the human genome, and that's in no small part thanks to Francis Collins. Under his directorship at the National Human Genome Research Institute , the Human Genome Project was finished, a complete mapping of all 20,500 genes in the human genome, with a high-quality, reference sequence published in April 2003.,In 2009 President Obama nominated Collins as the director of the National Institutes of Health, and later that year he was confirmed by the U.S. Senate. In March 2013, Collins helped Obama introduce the BRAIN Initiative, an ambitious, well-funded program to map the human brain. Read more about the BRAIN Initiative >>
Hyeonseo, Lee,My escape from North Korea,Activist,www.hyeonseo-lee.com/,,Hyeonseo Lee grew up in North Korea but escaped to China in 1997. In 2008, when she was 17-years-old, she came to Seoul, South Korea, where she struggled to adjust to life in the bustling city. North Korean defectors often have a hard time in South Korea, she noted in the Wall Street Journal  We defectors have to start from scratch. Prejudice against North Koreans and icy stares were other obstacles that were hard to cope with. Now a student at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, she has become an advocate for fellow refugees, even helping close relatives leave North Korea after they were targeted. Her dream? As she told the Korea Times , she'd like to work at the UN or an NGO that advocates for the human rights of North Koreans, including their right to be treated as political refugees.,“A brave & beautiful voice, a story which needs light and air.” — Tanya Michele on TED.comElon, Musk,The mind behind Tesla, SpaceX, SolarCity ...,Serial entrepreneur,elonmusk.com,,Elon Musk is the chief designer for SpaceX, overseeing development of rockets and spacecraft for missions to Earth orbit and ultimately to other planets. In 2008, SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon spacecraft won the NASA contract to provide a commercial replacement for the cargo transport function of the space shuttle. In 2012, SpaceX became the first commercial company to dock with the International Space Station and return cargo to Earth with the Dragon .,At Tesla, Musk has overseen product development and design from the beginning, including the all-electric Tesla Roadster, Model S and Model X, and overseeing the rollout of Supercharger stations to keep the cars juiced up. (Some of the charging stations use solar energy systems from SolarCity, of which Musk is the non-executive chair.) Transitioning to a sustainable energy economy, in which electric vehicles play a pivotal role, has been one of his central interests for almost two decades. He co-founded PayPal and served as the company's chair and CEO.
Danny, Hillis,The Internet could crash. We need a Plan B,Computer theorist,AppliedMinds.com,,Danny Hillis is an inventor, scientist, author and engineer. While completing his doctorate at MIT, he pioneered the concept of parallel computers that is now the basis for most supercomputers, as well as the RAID array. He holds over 100 US patents, covering parallel computers, disk arrays, forgery prevention methods, and various electronic and mechanical devices, and has recently been working on problems in medicine as well. He is also the designer of a 10,000-year mechanical clock, and he gave a TED Talk in 1994 that is practically prophetic. Throughout his career, Hillis has worked at places like Disney and now Applied Minds , always looking for the next fascinating problem.,“We're at a point in time which is analogous to when single-celled organisms were turning into multi-celled organisms. So we're the amoebas.” — Danny Hillis
Catarina, Mota,Play with smart materials,Maker,everywheretech.org/about/cm_sq/,,A maker of things and open-source advocate, Catarina Mota is co-founder of openMaterials.org , a collaborative project dedicated to do-it-yourself experimentation with smart materials. This is a new class of materials that change in response to stimuli conductive ink, shape-memory plastics, etc. Her goal is to encourage the making of things, to that end, she teaches hands-on workshops on high-tech materials and simple circuitry for both young people and adults--with a side benefit of encouraging interest in science, technology and knowledge-sharing. She's working on her PhD researching the social impact of open and collaborative practices for the development of technologies. In other words Do we make better stuff when we work together? She is also a co-founder of Lisbon's hackerspace altLab .,“Probably the most disruptive element of this technology is not the tools themselves, but the maker culture—the community of people who sell, use, and adapt the tools of digital fabrication.” — from R&D A Strategist’s Guide to Digital Fabrication
Bono,Bono,The good news on poverty (Yes, there's good news),Musician, activist,www.bonobono-online.com/,,Irreverent, funny, iconoclastic and relentless, Bono has proven himself stunningly effective in encouraging and cajoling the world's most powerful leaders to take seriously the challenge of disease and hunger and seize the historic opportunity we now have to beat extreme poverty, especially in Africa, through technological innovation, smart aid, transparency and investments which put citizens in charge.,As lead singer of U2 , Bono performed at Live Aid in 1985, which inspired him to travel to Ethiopia with his wife, Ali. There they spent several weeks helping with a famine relief project. The experience shocked him and ignited a determination to work for change. In Bono's own words, What are the blind spots of our age? It might be something as simple as our deep-down refusal to believe that every human life has equal worth. In 2005, the year of Make Poverty History , Bono became one of the inaugural winners of the TED Prize , he used his wish to raise awareness and inspire activism.
Stewart, Brand,The dawn of de-extinction. Are you ready?,Environmentalist, futurist,sb.longnow.org/,,With biotech accelerating four times faster than digital technology, the revival of extinct species is becoming possible. Stewart Brand plans to not only bring species back but restore them to the wild.,Brand is already a legend in the tech industry for things he’s created the Whole Earth Catalog , The WELL, the Global Business Network, the Long Now Foundation, and the notion that “information wants to be free.” Now Brand, a lifelong environmentalist, wants to re-create -- or “de-extinct” -- a few animals that’ve disappeared from the planet.
David, Anderson,Your brain is more than a bag of chemicals,Neurobiologist,https//davidandersonlab.caltech.edu/,,How is emotional behavior encoded in the brain? And what parts of the brain are affected by depression, ADHD and anxiety? This is what neurobiologist David Anderson researches in his lab at the California Institute for Technology by studying the brains of lab mice and fruit flies. By looking at how neural circuits give rise to emotions, Anderson hopes to advance a more nuanced view of psychiatric disorders -- that they aren’t the result of a simple “chemical imbalance,” but of a chemical imbalance at a specific site that has a specific emotional consequences. By researching these cause-and-effect relationships, Anderson hopes to pave the way for the development of new treatments for psychiatric disorders that are far more targeted and have far fewer side effects.,Trained by two Nobel laureates, Gunter Blobel and Richard Axel, Anderson is also an investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
Dan, Pallotta,The way we think about charity is dead wrong,Charity defender,www.danpallotta.com/,,The nonprofit sector is critical to our dream of changing the world. Yet there is no greater injustice than the double standard that exists between the for-profit and nonprofit sectors. One gets to feast on marketing, risk-taking, capital and financial incentive, the other is sentenced to begging,” Dan Pallotta says in discussing his latest book, Charity Case . This economic starvation of our nonprofits is why he believes we are not moving the needle on great social problems. “My goal … is to fundamentally transform the way the public thinks about charity within 10 years.”,Pallotta is best known for creating the multi-day charitable event industry, and a new generation of philanthropists with the AIDS Rides and Breast Cancer 3-Day events, which raised $582 million in nine years. He is president of Advertising for Humanity , which helps foundations and philanthropists transform the growth potential of their favorite grantees. He is also the founder and President of the Charity Defense Council .
Shane, Koyczan,To This Day ... for the bullied and beautiful,Poet,shanekoyczan.com,,Shane Koyczan is a poet, author and performer. He performed at the opening ceremonies of the Vancouver 2010 Winter Olympics, where an audience of more than 1 billion people worldwide heard his piece “We Are More.”,He has published three books  Stickboy , Our Deathbeds Will Be Thirsty and Visiting Hours, selected by both the Guardian and the Globe and Mail for their Best Books of the Year lists. In 2012, he released a full-length album with his band Shane Koyczan and the Short Story Long. The album includes the viral hit “To This Day,” which explores the anguish of anyone who grew up feeling different or just a little bit alone. To bring visual life to this image-rich poem, Koyczan invited artists from around the world to contribute 20-second segments of animation to the project. Posted on YouTube on February 19, 2013, by the close of the month the video had been viewed 6 million times.
Kakenya, Ntaiya,A girl who demanded school,Educator and activist,www.kakenyasdream.org/,,Kakenya Ntaiya was set to follow the traditional path of girls born in the small village of Enoosaen, Kenya. Engaged at the age of 5, she was to participate in a female circumcision ceremony as a young teenager and then be married. But she had a different plan. First, she negotiated with her father and willingly agree to be circumcised -- only if he would allow her to finish high school. Later, when she was accepted to Randolph-Macon Women's College in Viriginia, she negotiated with her village elders to do what no girl had ever done before leave her village to go to college in the United States.,She didn’t leave forever, though. Deeply proud of her heritage and of her community, Ntaiya returned to the village after school and worked with her elders to establish a school for girls there. The Kakenya Center for Excellence was established in 2009 with 32 students. A primary grade boarding school just for girls, the curriculum focuses on academics, leadership and female empowerment, along with cultural preservation and life skills. While families that can afford tuition do, Ntaiya also works with donors to provide scholarships for others.
Ron, Finley,A guerilla gardener in South Central LA,Gardener,ronfinley.com,,Artist and designer Ron Finley couldn’t help but notice what was going on in his backyard. “South Central Los Angeles,” he quips, “home of the drive-thru and the drive-by.” And it's the drive-thru fast-food stands that contribute more to the area’s poor health and high mortality rate, with one in two kids contracting a curable disease like Type 2 diabetes.,Finley’s vision for a healthy, accessible “food forest” started with the curbside veggie garden he planted in the strip of dirt in front of his own house. When the city tried to shut it down, Finley’s fight gave voice to a larger movement that provides nourishment, empowerment, education -- and healthy, hopeful futures -- one urban garden at a time.
Edith, Widder,How we found the giant squid,Marine biologist,www.teamorca.org/cfiles/about_edie.cfm,,A specialist in bioluminescence, Edith Widder helps design and invent new submersible instruments and equipment to study bioluminescence and enable unobtrusive observation of deep-sea environments. Her innovative tools for exploration have produced footage of rare and wonderful bioluminescent displays and never-before-seen denizens of the deep, including, most recently, the first video ever recorded of the giant squid, Architeuthis , in its natural habitat. In 2005 she founded the Ocean Research & Conservation Association (ORCA), which is dedicated to protecting aquatic ecosystems and the species they sustain through the development of innovative technologies and science-based conservation action., In an effort to protect and revitalize the ocean she loves she has been focusing on developing tools for finding and tracking pollution -- a major threat to all of our water ecosystems and ultimately to human health. She was awarded a MacArthur genius grant in 2006.,In 2012, Widder was among the team that filmed the giant squid ( Architeuthis ) for the first time in its home ocean.
Allan, Savory,How to fight desertification and reverse climate change,Grassland ecosystem pioneer, savoryinstitute.com,,Desertification of the world's grasslands, Allan Savory suggests, is the immediate cause of poverty, social breakdown, violence, cultural genocide -- and a significent contribution to climate change. In the 1960s, while working in Africa on the interrelated problems of increasing poverty and disappearing wildlife, Savory made a significant breakthrough in understanding the degradation and desertification of grassland ecosystems. After decades of study and collaboration, thousands of managers of land, livestock and wildlife on five continents today follow the methodology he calls Holistic Management. In 1992, Savory and his wife, Jody Butterfield, formed the Africa Centre for Holistic Management in Zimbabwe, a learning site for people all over Africa. In 2010, the Centre won the Buckminster Fuller Challenge for its work in reversing desertification. In that same year he and his wife, with others, founded the Savory Institute in Boulder, Colorado, to promote large-scale restoration of the world's grasslands.,Intrigued by this talk? Read Savory's papers and other publications »
Amanda, Palmer,The art of asking,Musician, blogger,amandapalmer.net,,Amanda Palmer commands attention. The singer-songwriter-blogger-provocateur, known for pushing boundaries in both her art and her lifestyle , made international headlines this year when she raised nearly $1.2 million via Kickstarter (she’d asked for $100k) from nearly 25,000 fans who pre-ordered her new album, Theatre Is Evil . But the former street performer, then Dresden Dolls frontwoman, now solo artist hit a bump the week her world tour kicked off. She revealed plans to crowdsource additional local backup musicians in each tour stop, offering to pay them in hugs, merchandise and beer per her custom. Bitter and angry criticism ensued (she eventually promised to pay her local collaborators in cash). And it's interesting to consider why. As Laurie Coots suggests The idea was heckled because we didn't understand the value exchange -- the whole idea of asking the crowd for what you need when you need it and not asking for more or less.,Summing up her business model , in which she views her recorded music as the digital equivalent of street performing, she says “I firmly believe in music being as free as possible. Unlocked. Shared and spread. In order for artists to survive and create, their audiences need to step up and directly support them.”
Jennifer, Granholm,A clean energy proposal — race to the top!,Former governor of Michigan,jennifergranholm.com/,,Jennifer M. Granholm was elected governor of Michigan in 2002, and in 2006, she was re-elected with the largest number of votes ever cast for governor in Michigan. As governor, Granholm led the state through a brutal economic downturn that resulted from a meltdown in the automotive and manufacturing sectors. She worked relentlessly to diversify the state’s economy, strengthen its auto industry, preserve the advancedmanufacturing sector, and add new, emerging sectors, such as clean energy, to Michigan’s economic portfolio.,During her tenure, she pioneered clean energy policies, working with business and labor, Republicans and Democrats to create new economic opportunities in Michigan. In 2005, the Granholm economic development team put together an aggressive strategy to make Michigan the hub of clean-energy development in North America by developing entire supply chains in Michigan, fostering critical partnerships between industry, government and researchers and by creating economic incentives that made Michigan the place to locate. Granholm’s plan included specific clustering strategies targeted at battery manufacturing, bio-energy, solar and wind power. Her leadership attracted to Michigan more than 89,000clean energy jobs and $9.4 billion in investments in that sector. By the time she left office at the start of 2011, Michigan’s economy was rebounding and Gallup listed Michigan as state with the most improved jobs climate.
Sugata, Mitra,Build a School in the Cloud,Education researcher, sugatam.blogspot.com,,Educational researcher Dr. Sugata Mitra’s “ Hole in the Wall ” experiments have shown that, in the absence of supervision or formal teaching, children can teach themselves and each other, if they’re motivated by curiosity and peer interest. In 1999, Mitra and his colleagues dug a hole in a wall bordering an urban slum in New Delhi, installed an Internet-connected PC, and left it there (with a hidden camera filming the area). What they saw was kids from the slum playing around with the computer and in the process learning how to use it and how to go online, and then teaching each other. The Hole in the Wall project demonstrates that, even in the absence of any direct input from a teacher, an environment that stimulates curiosity can cause learning through self-instruction and peer-shared knowledge. Mitra, who's now a professor of educational technology at Newcastle University (UK) , calls it minimally invasive education.,At TED2013, Sugata Mitra made a bold TED Prize wish Help me build a place where children can explore and learn on their own -- and teach one another -- using resouces from the worldwide cloud.
Bruno, Maisonnier,Dance, tiny robots!,Roboticist, aldebaran-robotics.com,,The same thing is happening with robots as it did with microcomputers, says Bruno Maisonnier, founder of Aldebaran Robotics. This means that hundreds of thousands of the young and not so young, curious and open to the future, want to explore a new device/type of tool which should revolutionize the world.,Aldebaran's little Nao robot is accessible and open so that it can serve as a platform for exploration in schools.
Bruce, Feiler,Agile programming — for your family,Writer, brucefeiler.com,,Bruce Feiler is the author of nine books, including Walking the Bible, Abraham , and America’s Prophet . He is also the writer/presenter of the PBS miniseries Walking the Bible . His book The Council of Dads tells the uplifting story of how friendship and community can help one survive life’s greatest challenges. Most recently Feiler published The Secrets of Happy Families , in which he calls for a new approach to family dynamics, inspired by cutting-edge techniques gathered from experts in the disciplines of science, business, sports and the military. Feiler’s early books involve immersing himself in different cultures and bringing other worlds vividly to life. These include Learning to Bow , an account of the year he spent teaching in rural Japan, Looking for Class , about life inside Oxford and Cambridge, and Under the Big Top , which depicts the year he spent performing as a clown in the Clyde Beatty-Cole Bros. Circus. Walking the Bible describes his perilous, 10,000-mile journey retracing the Five Books of Moses through the desert. The book was hailed as an “instant classic” by the Washington Post and “thoughtful, informed, and perceptive” by the New York Times .,
Michael, Dickinson,How a fly flies,Biologist,www.biology.washington.edu/profile-flyman,,Some things are so commonplace that they barely register our attention. Michael Dickinson has dedicated much of his research to one such thing -- the flight of the fly. Dickinson aims to understand how a fly's nervous system allows it to accomplish such incredible aerodynamic feats. Affectionately dubbed the Fly Guy by The Scientist , Dickinson's research brings together zoology, neuroscience and fluid mechanics.,Dickinson was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2001. He is now a professor of biology at the University of Washington, where he heads The Dickinson Lab. The lab conducts research into insect flight control, animal brain recordings, animal/robot interactions and animal visual navigation and welcomes students with an interest in studying insect flight, behavior and evolution from an interdisciplinary approach perspective.
Andreas, Schleicher,Use data to build better schools,Education surveyor, PISA.oecd.org,,First, a few acronyms Andreas Schleicher heads the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) at the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). What it means is He's designed a test, given to hundreds of thousands of 15-year-olds around the world (the most recent covered almost 70 nations), that offers unprecedented insight into how well national education systems are preparing their students for adult life. As The Atlantic puts it, the PISA test measured not students’ retention of facts, but their readiness for 'knowledge worker' jobs—their ability to think critically and solve real-world problems.,The results of the PISA test, given every three years, are fed back to governments and schools so they can work on improving their ranking. And the data has inspired Schleicher to become a vocal advocate for the policy changes that, his research suggests, make for great schools.
Afra, Raymond,Three myths about corruption,Transparency activist,https//afraraymond.wordpress.com/,,Afra Raymond calls out government corruption, demanding more transparency and accountability from the leaders of Trinidad and Tobago. His work in recent years has focused on the CL Financial collapse of 2009 and subsequent government bailout, which Raymond says operated “with different laws of physics” than bailouts of financial institutions in other countries. Writing on topics like white-collar crime, good governance and national development, Raymond shows that corruption shouldn't be a given. He wrote the column “Property Matters” in The Business Guardian from 2004 through 2012. Now, he writes on his own website, AfraRaymond.com .,Raymond looks at corruption through his lens as an expert in the fields of property valuation, project appraisal, development planning and management. He is a Chartered Surveyor and Managing Director of Raymond & Pierre Limited and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) in January 2011. He has served on a number of Boards in various positions including Executive Member of the Federation of Black Housing Organizations (FBHO) in London, Board member of the Trinidad Building & Loan Association (TBLA), Director of EPL Properties Limited (EPL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eastern Credit Union (ECU) and Immediate Past-President of the Institute of Surveyors of Trinidad & Tobago (ISTT).
Keith, Chen,Could your language affect your ability to save money?,Behavioral Economist,www.anderson.ucla.edu/.../keith...,,Does the future look like a different world to you, or more like an extension of the present? In an intriguing piece of research, Keith Chen suggests that your attitude about the future has a strong relationship to the language you speak. In a nutshell, some languages refer to the future using verb helpers like will and shall, while others don't have specific verbs to refer to future actions. Chen correlated these two different language types with remarkably different rates of saving for the future (guess who saves more?). He calls this connection the futurity of languages. The paper is in the process of being published by the American Economic Review , and it's already generated discussion. Chen says While the data I analyze don’t allow me to completely understand what role language plays in these relationships, they suggest that there is something really remarkable to be explained about the interaction of language and economic decision-making. These correlations are so strong and survive such an aggressive set of controls, that the chances they arise by random lies somewhere between one in 10,000 and one in 10^32.,Chen excels in asking unusual questions to yield original results. Another recent work (with Yale colleague and TEDGlobal 2009 speaker Laurie Santos ) examined how monkeys view economic risk--with surprisingly humanlike irrationality. While a current working paper asks a surprising, if rhetorical, question Does it make economic sense for a woman to become a physician?
Miguel, Nicolelis,A monkey that controls a robot with its thoughts. No, really.,Neuroscientist,nicolelislab.net,,At the Nicolelis Laboratory at Duke University, Miguel Nicolelis is best known for pioneering studies in neuronal population coding, Brain Machine Interfaces (BMI) and neuroprosthetics in human patients and non-human primates.His lab's work was seen, famously though a bit too briefly, when a brain-controlled exoskeleton from his lab helped Juliano Pinto, a paraplegic man, kick the first ball at the 2014 World Cup.,But his lab is thinking even bigger. They've developed an integrative approach to studying neurological disorders, including Parkinsons disease and epilepsy. The approach, they hope, will allow the integration of molecular, cellular, systems and behavioral data in the same animal, producing a more complete understanding of the nature of the neurophysiological alterations associated with these disorders. He's the author of the books Beyond Boundaries and The Relativistic Brain .
Young-ha, Kim,Be an artist, right now!,Writer,kimyoungha.com/,,Young-ha Kim wishes that his eighth grade teacher, rather than chiding him for a poorly-executed drawing with a sweeping backstory, had told him, “Well, Young-ha, you may not be good at drawing but you have a talent for storytelling.” Without encouragement, he took the long road toward becoming a writer.,Young-ha Kim published his debut novel, I Have the Right to Destroy Myself , in 1996. It won the esteemed Munhak-dongne prize, and was translated into French two years later. Followed by English and German translations, the book garnered Kim international recognition. Kim has since published five novels -- including The Empire of Light and Your Republic Is Calling You -- plus four collections of short stories.
Esther, Perel,The secret to desire in a long-term relationship,Relationship therapist,EstherPerel.com,,Psychotherapist Esther Perel is changing the conversation on what it means to be in love and have a fulfilling sex life. For the first time in human history, couples aren't having sex just to have kids, there's room for sustained desire, for couples to cultivate long-term sexual relationships. But how? Perel, a licensed marriage and family therapist, travels the world to help people answer this question.,For her research Perel works across cultures and is herself fluent in nine languages. She coaches and consults with organizations and families, holds a private psychotherapy practice in New York, and speaks regularly on erotic intelligence, trauma, conflict resolution and infidelity. She is the author of Mating in Captivity Reconciling the Erotic and the Domestic .
James, B. Glattfelder,Who controls the world?,Complex systems theorist,www.jth.ch/,,First a physicist and then a researcher at a Swiss hedge fund, James B. Glattfelder found himself amazed by the level of understanding we have in regards to the physical world and universe around us. He wondered how can we move toward a similar understanding of human society?,This question led him to the study of complex systems, a subject he now holds a Ph.D in from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. Glattfelder is co-head of quantitative research at Olsen Ltd in Zurich, an FX investment manager focusing on market-stabilizing algorithms. In 2011, he co-authored the study “ The Network of Global Corporate Control ,” which went viral in the international media and sparked many controversial discussions. The study looked at the architecture of ownership across the globe, and computed a level of control exerted by each international player. The study revealed that less than 1% of all the players in the global economy are part of a highly interconnected and powerful core which, because of the high levels of overlap, leaves the economy vulnerable.
Erik, Schlangen,A self-healing asphalt,Experimental micromechanics pioneer,erikschlangen.wix.com/erikschlangen,,Erik Schlangen is a Civil Engineering professor at Delft University of Technology and the Chair of Experimental Micromechanics. His areas of research include durability mechanics and self-healing materials, like the asphalt and concrete he and his team have developed that can be repaired with induction. This special asphalt is made with tiny steel wool fibers, which, when heated with induction, extends the life of the material. Currently Schlangen and his team are testing the asphalt on the A58 road near Vilssingen in the Netherlands, with the hope that it can be used in future roads all over the country.,
Shabana, Basij-Rasikh,Dare to educate Afghan girls,Educator,www.sola-afghanistan.org/shabana.html,,Shabana Basij-Rasikh was born and raised in Kabul, Afghanistan. Under the Taliban, she dressed as a boy to escort her older sister to a secret school -- with dire consequences if they were caught. She attended a high school in America under the YES exchange program, and graduated from Middlebury College in Vermont. During college, she founded HELA, a nonprofit organization dedicated to empowering Afghan women through education. She also raised funds through foundations and public talks across the US to build a high school for girls in her ancestral village, and to build wells on the outskirts of Kabul to give communities access to clean drinking water.,An enthusiast of systemic change and community impact, Basij-Rasikh was selected as one of Glamour' s Top 10 College Women of 2010, and was awarded the Vermont Campus Compact 2011 Kunin Public Award for outstanding public service, effective leadership and community-building. Now, Shabana has joined 10×10 as a Global Ambassador, supporting a global action campaign that links nonprofits, corporations, philanthropists, policy leaders, global influencers and grassroots activists in a movement to support girls’ education. She is managing director of SOLA (School of Leadership, Afghanistan) , a nonprofit that helps exceptional young Afghan women access education worldwide and jobs back home.
Edi, Rama,Take back your city with paint,Politician,edirama.al,,Edi Rama has been in politics since the start of the 21st century, but before that he was a painter. It was this deep affinity for light and color that informed Rama's time as mayor of Tirana, when he literally painted the town ... every color. Rama is best known for the removal of government kiosks all over the city, thus cutting down on endemic bribery, and for the establishment of a modern new reception hall for citizens with paperwork requests. Rama's administration also demolished thousands of illegal buildings, removed hundreds of thousands of tons of concrete from riverbanks, and planted thousands of trees and bushes all over the city. Rama continues to serve as a leader of the Socialist Party of Albania.,Check out photos of painted Tirana »
Lee, Cronin,Print your own medicine,Chemist,www.chem.gla.ac.uk/cronin/,,Lee Cronin's lab at the University of Glasgow does cutting-edge research into how complex chemical systems, created from non-biological building blocks, can have real-world applications with wide impact. At TEDGlobal 2012, Cronin shared some of the lab's latest work creating a 3D printer for molecules. This device -- which has been prototyped -- can download plans for molecules and print them, in the same way that a 3D printer creates objects. In the future, Cronin says this technology could potentially be used to print medicine -- cheaply and wherever it is needed. As Cronin says What Apple did for music, I'd like to do for the discovery and distribution of prescription drugs.,At TEDGlobal 2011, Cronin shared his lab's bold plan to create life. At the moment, bacteria is the minimum unit of life -- the smallest chemical unit that can undergo evolution. But in Cronin's emerging field, he's thinking about forms of life that won't be biological. To explore this, and to try to understand how life itself originated from chemicals, Cronin and others are attempting to create truly artificial life from completely non-biological chemistries that mimic the behavior of natural cells. They call these chemical cells, or Chells.
Cesar, Kuriyama,One second every day,Video maker,CesarKuriyama.com,,As a video maker, director, producer and animator Cesar Kuriyama has worked for giant clients like Hershey's, BMW, Verizon, Gillette and the NFL. But what we love about him are his personal projects -- based on his travel, his love of the arts community, and his family and friends. Imagine a movie that contains one day of your entire life ...,Play with the 1SecondEveryDay app ... and check out other people's own videos on r/OneSecondaDay .
Tyler, DeWitt,Hey science teachers — make it fun,Science enthusiast,www.tylerdewitt.org/,,Tyler DeWitt has taught Biology, Chemistry and English at high schools in both the United States and South Korea, and believes that science could be every student’s favorite class if it weren’t for the long words and overly technical presentation. Instead, DeWitt focuses on creating engaging lessons that evoke a sense of wonder in kids and that encourage them to think critically.,Currently a Ph.D. student in Microbiology at MIT, DeWitt studies how bacteria transfer pieces of DNA to their neighbors. He is also a coordinator for the MIT+K12 video outreach project, which encourages MIT students to create educational videos for students of all ages in all subjects. DeWitt also has a full YouTube library of videos that teach everything from valence electrons to the chemistry of acids , all with an eye toward fun.
Zahra', Langhi,Why Libya's revolution didn't work — and what might,Activist,lwpp.org/,,Zahra’ Langhi is a gender specialist, civil society strategist, political activist advocating for peace, human rights and women’s leadership, scholar, and researcher in the field of Middle Eastern history, metaphysics, mysticism, and female spirituality in comparative religions.,She is the cofounder of Libyan Women’s Platform for Peace (LWPP), a pressure group/movement advocating for women’s socio-political empowerment and peace-building. In conjunction with Karama and the UN Women, she coordinated the Libyan Women’s Political Empowerment (LWPE) program, aimed at empowering women in Libya to become active participants and leaders of political, economic, and social reforms, and to ensure that gender equality and women’s rights are fully integrated in democratic transition, including in governance processes, legislation, and policies. Langhi led LWPP’s initiative of lobbying for the introduction of the zipper list (alternation of males and females in political parties) in the election law, which has secured 17.5 of the seats in the National Congress.
Kid, President,I think we all need a pep talk,Inspirer,SoulPancake.com,,In his inaugural video for SoulPancake, unleashed on the web in October of 2012, Kid President -- aka 9-year-old Robby Novak of Henderson, Tennessee -- declared, “I’m not in a party. I am a party.” Now, people from all around the globe are coming to celebrate.,Kid President began as a collaboration between Novak and his older brother-in-law, Bradley Montague. The pair tag teamed to plant hilarious seeds of wisdom and posted their videos online for family and friends to enjoy. But the videos soon caught the attention of SoulPancake , the YouTube channel and website co-created by Rainn Wilson of The Office . The site has picked up 19 Kid President videos so far, and counting. The most popular to date, “A Pep Talk from Kid President to You,” has been watched more than 6 million times in just its first week online. It features music from Sleeping at Last and Skewby.
Fahad, Al-Attiya,A country with no water,Food security expert,https//www.ted.com/speakers/fahad_al_attiya,,Fahad Bin Mohammed Al-Attiya has his work cut out for him His home, Qatar, has found itself a newly oil-rich country with an economy growing at an average rate of 15 percent a year, with a rapidly expanding population. That burst in population has been accompanied by a huge surge in water consumption. So what's so strange about that? -- Qatar has virtually no water. In comparison to Brazil's annual 1782 mm of rain, Qatar's annual rainfall is 74 mm.,Al-Attiya is the Chairman of Qatar’s National Food Security Programme, and he is tasked with making food secure -- and keeping it that way -- in a place that has no water and imports 90 percent of its food. He hopes that his program's innovations in sustainable agriculture, especially in arid regions, can help other countries deal with dwindling food supplies due to extreme climate change.
iO Tillett, Wright,Fifty shades of gay,Photographer,DarlingDays.com,,iO Tillett Wright thanks her parents for not asking her to define herself as a child. Her experience of growing up without having check boxes like “female,” “male,” “gay” or straight” thoroughly infuses her art.,iO’s photography can be seen regularly in two features in The New York Times  Notes from the Underground and The Lowdown . She is also the creator of Self Evident Truths —an ongoing project to document the wide variety of experiences in LGBTQ America. So far, she has photographed about 2,000 people for the project. Her goal 10,000 portraits and a nationwide rethinking of discriminatory laws.
Mitch, Resnick,Let's teach kids to code,Computer scientist,https//www.media.mit.edu/people/mres,,When we first enter primary school, we spend our days creating, painting, building, experimenting creatively with form and shape. But what happens after that first year? Why doesn't the creativity continue? Mitch Resnick, Director of the Lifelong Kindergarten program and LEGO Papert Professor of Learning Research at MIT Media Lab, is making it his mission to help kids keep the exploration going. He and his team develop new interfaces to help students engage with technology, in a way that encourages them to create and experiment the way we did in kindergarten with paint. Some of Resnick's projects include Scratch , which helps young users learn to code, and the Computer Clubhouse , an international network of creative afterschool programs for underpriveleged students.,
Wingham, Rowan,A new kind of job market,Policy entrepreneur,ultraflexi.com/about-us/,,As director of Britain's Beyond Jobs project, Wingham Rowan and his team develop the technology to enable official markets to run on irregular work hours. The project grew out of UK government funding for very flexible labor markets. He is also founder of the UltraFlexi social business.,Rowan is the former producer and presenter of the UK’s longest running television series about the Internet, cyber.cafe, and the presenter of the children’s TV program Rowan’s Report . He is the author of two books and multiple policy papers about the social potential of online markets.
Leslie, Morgan Steiner,Why domestic violence victims don't leave,Writer,Lesliemorgansteiner.com,,Leslie Morgan Steiner is the author of Crazy Love , a memoir about her marriage to a man who routinely abused and threatened her. In it she describes the harrowing details that unfolded unexpectedly -- from the moment she met a warm, loving, infatuated man on the subway, to the moment he first laid a hand on her, when he grabbed her neck just days before their wedding. Steiner also edited Mommy Wars Stay-at-Home and Career Moms Face Off on Their Choices, Their Lives, Their Families , a collection of essays by women struggling to balance motherhood and their careers.,Steiner received her MBA in marketing from Wharton School of Business and worked in marketing for Johnson & Johnson before transitioning to writing, as General Manager of the Washington Post Magazine . Steiner writes a weekly column called Two Cents on Modern Motherhood, for the website Mommy Track’d, and she has just finished her third book, on the effect of fertility treatments on modern motherhood.
Steven, Schwaitzberg,A universal translator for surgeons,Surgeon and technologist,https//ccpe.sph.harvard.edu/successstory.cfm?,,Steven Schwaitzberg, MD, is a pioneer in the field of minimally invasive surgery. Over the course of his career, he has worked on developing the techniques and certification standards for this type of surgery, which is far less painful for patients and allows them to return to their normal lives sooner than with traditional surgery.,Schwaitzberg is the Chief of Surgery at the Cambridge Health Alliance at the Harvard Medical School Teaching Hospital. He recently served as the president of SAGES (Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons), a national organization that seeks to advance surgery and improve patient care. Now, he has his eye on teaching minimally invasive surgery techniques to surgeons who live and work across the globe -- a task which has led him on a hunt for the right technology to allow for video conferencing and real-time translation in a surgeon’s native language.
Colin, Powell,Kids need structure,Former U.S. Secretary of State,www.biography.com/people/colin-powell-9445708,,Four-star General Colin Powell was the first African-American U.S. Secretary of State, serving under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2005. Prior to his service Powell was also the first African-American to serve as Chairman to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, an office he held from 1989 to 1993. But how did young Powell, a C student from the Bronx and a child of Jamaican immigrants, reach the highest military position in the Department of Defense?,While Powell was attending university at City College of New York, he found his calling in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC). He graduated to become an Army second lieutenant and later went on to serve two tours in the Vietnam War. In 1989 under President George H. W. Bush, Powell was made a full general, before being named 12th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Janine, di Giovanni,What I saw in the war,Reporter,www.janinedigiovanni.com/,,Janine di Giovanni is a contributing editor to Vanity Fair . She writes for the British, American, and French press, and has reported from Afghanistan, Iraq, Israel, Algeria, Gaza, the West Bank, Zimbabwe, Rwanda, Pakistan, East Timor, Ivory Coast, Bosnia, Kosovo, Liberia, Somalia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. has won four major journalistic awards, including the National Magazine Award.,She is the author of Madness Visible and The Quick and the Dead , The Place at the End of the World , and Ghosts by Daylight which recently won Spears Best Memoir of the Year. She wrote the introduction to the international best seller Zlata’s Diary a Child’s Life in Sarajevo . Two documentaries have been made about her life and work ( Bearing Witness and No Man’s Land ). In 2010, she was the President of the Jury of the Prix Bayeux-Calvados for War. She is now focused on Syria, Egypt, Libya and Yemen and so far has been inside Syria three times. Janine lives in Paris.
Colin, Stokes,How movies teach manhood,Proud dad,colinstokes.blogspot.com/,,Colin Stokes divides his time between parenting and building the brand of Citizen Schools, a non-profit that reimagines the school day for middle school students in low-income communities in eight states. As Managing Director of Brand & Communications, Colin helps people within the organization find the ideas, words and stories that will connect with more and more people. He believes that understanding the human mind is a force that can be used for good and seeks to take advantage of our innate and learned tendencies to bring out the best in each other and our culture.,Before starting a family, Colin was an actor and graphic designer in New York City. He starred in the long-running off-Broadway musical I Love You, You’re Perfect, Now Change , as well is in several musicals and Shakespeare stagings. But he jokes that he seems to have achieved more renown (and considerably more revenue) for his brief appearances on two Law & Order episodes.
Richard, Weller,Could the sun be good for your heart?,Dermatologist,https//www.design.upenn.edu/landscape-architecture/people/richard-weller-0,,Edinburgh-native Richard Weller was studying medicine in Australia when something suddenly struck him as odd Why are the Scots so sick? Australians suffer from heart disease at one-third the rate that Britons do, with lower death rates from heart attacks and heart failure, and fewer strokes overall. When Weller looked into it, this wasn't unique to Australia and England In fact, there are wide gaps in mortality even within the UK, a gradient which maps roughly ... geographically? A five-degree change in latitude -- between London and Edinburg, for example -- shows a nearly 20 percent higher rate of mortality. Weller and his team have been working ever since to crack this mysterious gap, and most recently their research shows it may be related to exposure to sunlight. Nitric oxide (NO), a chemical transmitter produced by the skin and stored in great reserves, is released by exposure to UV rays, and this in turn is very important to cardiovascular health.,Weller is a senior lecturer in Dermatology at the University of Edinburgh. His two areas of study are the role of NO in human skin physiology and the role of skin barrier function deficiencies in atopic disease.
Cameron, Russell,Looks aren't everything. Believe me, I'm a model.,Model,cameron-russell.com,,Cameron Russell has spent the last decade modeling. A Victoria's Secret favorite, she has appeared in multiple international editions of Vogue as well as in ads for brands like Ralph Lauren and Benetton. But she feels at her core that image isn't everything.,Cameron runs the blog ArtRoots.info , which is dedicated to covering grassroots public art and political power. She also experiments with creating street art herself. In addition, Cameron is the director of The Big Bad Lab , which creates participatory art that aims to include people in radical demonstrations of positive social change.
Ellen, Jorgensen,Biohacking — you can do it, too,Biologist and community science advocate, genspace.org,,After many years of working as a molecular biologist in the biotechnology industry, Ellen Jorgensen needed a change. So, in 2009, bolstered by her belief in public science literacy, education, and outreach, together with TED Fellow Oliver Medvedik, she founded Genspace , the world’s first government-compliant DIY biotech lab.,Despite criticism that some research should be left to the experts, the Brooklyn-based lab continues to thrive. Amateur and professional scientists conduct award-winning research there on projects as diverse as identifying microbes that live in Earth’s atmosphere and (Jorgensen's own pet project) DNA-barcoding plants from Alaska, to distinguish between species that look alike but may not be closely related evolutionarily.
Angela, Patton,A father-daughter dance ... in prison,Activist,campdiva.org/foundersPage.htm,,Tragedies are always difficult to overcome, but for Angela Patton they can be used as inspiration to pursue endeavors that positively impact the community. When Diva Mistadi Smith-Roane, the 5-year-old daughter of Patton’s friend, lost her life through a firearm accident in 2004, Patton found a mission To create a summer camp where girls, ages 11 to 17, could be safe and instill in them principles that would prepare them for a healthy womanhood. She named it Camp Diva in memory of Diva. Since its inception, Camp Diva has expanded to offer after-school programs, conferences and other programs and services. The aim is to empower at-risk girls of African descent, whom she refers to as “at-promise.”,In 2011 Angela became part of the Girls for a Change staff and is currently running GFC Richmond programs. Trained as a licensed practical nurse and doula, Patton has worked in the nonprofit sector for over fifteen years. Angela serves as the director of Camp Diva, completing her BS degree in Business Administration from ECPI University and certification in Nonprofit Management. She has been honored as one of Virginians Making a Difference and Top 40 under 40, and was selected as one of 75 2012 Opportunity Collaboration Cordes Fellows.
Andy, Puddicombe,All it takes is 10 mindful minutes,Mindfulness expert, Headspace.com,,Andy Puddicombe wants you to take a break -- not just from work, but from your own mind, which is so full of anxieties about the world and anxieties about its own anxieties. To help you do that, Puddicombe, a former Buddhist monk, co-founded Headspace , a project to make meditation more accessible to more people in their everyday lives. Puddicombe also writes prolifically for the Huffington Post and the Guardian , on the benefits of mindful thinking for healthy living.,
Boghuma, Kabisen Titanji,Ethical riddles in HIV research,Clinical researcher,https//www.ted.com/speakers/boghuma_kabisen_titanji,,Born in Cameroon, Boghuma Kabisen Titanji is a medical doctor and MPhil/PhD candidate at University College London. Her research into HIV drug resistant viruses seeks to better understand the mechanisms of drug resistance and to identify new ways of targeting resistant viruses.,During the course of her research, Titanji met a woman named Celine who forever changed the way she thinks about the people who sign informed consent agreements to be research subjects. Ever since, Titanji has been a vocal advocate for ethical medical research, calling for researchers to find less exploitative ways to study diseases in developing countries.
Jarrett, J. Krosoczka,How a boy became an artist,Author/illustrator, studiojjk.com,,Jarrett J. Krosoczka has been a storyteller since the ripe age of eight, when he wrote his first book, The Owl Who Thought He Was The Best Flyer , about an owl who challenged Hermes to a flying race. Since that rather promising start Krosoczka has published 18 picture books and graphic novels for children, including the much-loved Lunch Lady series , which is a two-time winner of the Children's Choice Book Award. Krosoczka hosts The Book Report with JJK on Sirius XM's Kids Place Live, a radio show about books, aimed at kids 10 and younger. In 2010 he founded the Joseph and Shirley Krosoczka Memorial Youth Scholarships at Worcester Art Museum, to fund classes for young and underprivileged aspiring artists.,
Sue, Austin,Deep sea diving ... in a wheelchair,Performance artist, Freewheeling.com,,Multimedia, performance and installation artist Sue Austin keeps a fascinating mission at the center her work to challenge the idea of disabled as “other” and represent her experience as a wheelchair user in a brighter light. She does this by creating quirky, unexpected juxtapositions -- bringing a sense of whimsy and empowerment to the discussion of disability.,Austin is the founder and artistic director of Freewheeling , an initiative aiming to further the genre of Disability Arts. In 2012, she was asked to be a part of the Cultural Olympiad in Britain, a celebration of the arts leading up to the Olympic and Paralympic Games. The work she created for the event, called “Creating the Spectacle!,” is a groundbreaking series of live art and video works of an underwater wheelchair.
Jonathan, Haidt,How common threats can make common (political) ground,Social psychologist,AsteroidsClub.org,,Haidt is a social psychologist whose research on morality across cultures led up to his much-quoted 2008 TEDTalk on the psychological roots of the American culture war. He asks, Can't we all disagree more constructively? In September 2009, Jonathan Haidt spoke to the TED Blog about the moral psychology behind the healthcare debate in the United States. He's also active in the study of positive psychology and human flourishing.,At TED2012 he explored the intersection of his work on morality with his work on happiness to talk about “hive psychology” – the ability that humans have to lose themselves in groups pursuing larger projects, almost like bees in a hive. This hivish ability Is crucial, he argues, for understanding the origins of morality, politics, and religion. These are ideas that Haidt develops at greater length in his new book, The Righteous Mind Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion . Learn more about his drive for a more productive and civil politics on his website CivilPolitics.org . And take an eye-opening quiz about your own morals at YourMorals.org .
Don, Levy,A cinematic journey through visual effects,Film executive,www.smithbrookfarm.com/,,Don Levy joined Sony Pictures Imageworks when it was “just 40 people and a dream” in 1995. Starting as an awards campaign consultant, he helped the studio grow in both size and reputation, beginning with its first Academy Award for the animated short “The ChubbChubbs” in 2003 and continuing with the 2005 Academy Award for Best Visual Effects for “Spider-Man 2.” As the senior vice president of marketing and communications for Sony Pictures, he directed corporate communications, marketing and public relations for Sony Pictures Imageworks, Sony Pictures Digital Entertainment, as well as for Sony Pictures Animation and Sony Online Entertainment.,Levy left Sony Pictures in June of 2012 to develop a new family entertainment venture and found Smith Brook Farm , a media, entertainement and tech consultancy. At the same time, he is a visiting scholar at the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts' Entertainment Technology Center and is teaching entertainment marketing at Boston University's Los Angeles Internship Program.
Hadyn, Parry,Re-engineering mosquitos to fight disease,Biotechnology entrepreneur,www.oxitec.com › Who we are,,We have reached a moment of truth, says biotech entrepreneur Hadyn Parry. He believes it's a pivotal time for the science industry and it's the moment for the public to wake up and rethink its position on GM technologies and trials. Parry, who is the CEO of Oxitec , a biotech company devoted to innovative insect control, believes the debate over GM crops and animals has become too political, and people are not stopping to evaluate the technologies' true promises and efficacies. In his eyes, GM can be used responsibly for important goals, like the control of extremely harmful diseases like dengue fever.,
Karen, Thompson Walker,What fear can teach us,Novelist,www.theageofmiraclesbook.com/author/,,In Karen Thompson Walker's 2012 book The Age of Miracles , a young girl and her family awake one morning to discover that the rotation of the Earth has suddenly begun to slow, stretching the length of the 24-hour day and throwing the natural world into disarray. It's a big, speculative book, but at heart, it's a simple human drama, told through the eyes of an observant adolescent girl.,A former book editor at Simon & Schuster, Walker worked on the novel for three years, an hour each morning before work. Fun fact The Age of Miracles was published on June 21, 2012 -- the longest day of the year. Since then, the bestselling, much-awarded book has been translated into 29 languages.
Ronny, Edry,Israel and Iran A love story?,Graphic Designer,thepeacefactory.org/,,Ronny Edry is a graphic designer, teacher and father. While he often posted images on Facebook without much fanfare, in March of 2012 one of his images garnered international attention. The image showed him with his daughter, along with the words “Iranians, we will never bomb your country. We heart you.” The image became a catalyst for dialogue between the people of two nations on the brink of war -- and started an online movement. Today, The Peace Factory is connecting people throughout the Middle East, giving them a voice and a face.,Edry grew up in Paris, France, and has lived in Israel since 1989. Along with his work on the Peace Factory, he is the owner and founder of Pushpin, a school for art and design in Tel Aviv. He himself graduated with honors from the BezIalel Academy of Art and Design, and he is a staff member teaching visual communication in design academies in Israel. He has received awards for his works as a graphic designer and is also an illustrator and author of graphic novels.
Adam, Davidson,What we learned from teetering on the fiscal cliff,Journalist,adamdavidson.com/,,Adam Davidson is co-founder and co-host of Planet Money , a co-production of NPR and This American Life. He also writes the weekly It's the Economy column for the New York Times Magazine. In two weekly podcasts, a blog, and regular features on Morning Edition, All Things Considered and This American Life, Planet Money helps listeners understand how dramatic economic change is impacting their lives. Planet Money also proves, every day, that substantive, intelligent economic reporting can be funny, engaging, and accessible to the non-expert. His radio documentary on the housing crisis, The Giant Pool of Money, which he co-reported and produced with Alex Blumberg, was named one of the top ten works of journalism of the decade by the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute at New York University. It was widely recognized as the clearest and most entertaining explanation of the roots of the financial crisis in any media. Davidson and Blumberg took the lessons they learned crafting The Giant Pool of Money to create Planet Money. Before Planet Money, Davidson was International Business and Economics Correspondent for NPR. He traveled around the world to cover the global economy and pitched in during crises, such as reporting from Indonesia's Banda Aceh just after the tsunami, New Orleans post-Katrina, and Paris during the youth riots. Prior to coming to NPR, Davidson was Middle East correspondent for PRI's Marketplace. He spent a year in Baghdad, Iraq, from 2003 to 2004, producing award-winning reports on corruption in the US occupation.,
Steven, Addis,A father-daughter bond, one photo at a time,Brand strategist,addis.com/,,In the late ‘80s, Steven Addis imagined a creative agency that merged strategy and design, breaking down the walls between strategists, copywriters and designers. That vision evolved into Addis Creson , a brand strategy firm set on creating positive change by working with clients to market meaningful products and to improve their social benefit. The firm is behind the rapid rise of Kashi, the naming of Shutterfly and the launching of the sustainably raised salmon brand, Verlasso.,A photographer, film buff and writer, Addis began documenting the evolution of branding as the online world took shape. An avid traveler and supporter of the arts, he also advises businesses and non-profits through board work for the UC Berkeley Art Museum & Pacific Film Archive and MapLight .
Molly, Crockett,Beware neuro-bunk,Neuroscientist, MollyCrockett.com,,Can what you eat influence your sense of justice? Will a simple drug make you more likely to help a stranger on the street? Neuroscientist Molly Crockett asks and answers these and many other fascinating questions about the influence of neurotransmitters, like dopamine and serotonin, on altruism and decision-making. Neuroscience may hold the answer, says Crockett, but there are still limits to our ability to draw conclusions from neural research. Crockett received her PhD from the University of Cambridge in 2011, and she is currently working with support from the four-year Sir Henry Wellcome Postdoctoral Fellowship studying human altruism in labratories worldwide.,
Robin, Chase,Excuse me, may I rent your car?,Transport networker,www.robinchase.org/,,If she weren't a proven entrepreneur, you might imagine Robin Chase as a transportation geek, a dedicated civil servant, endlessly refining computer models of freeway traffic. If she weren't such a green-conscious problem-solver, you might take her for a startup whiz. Case in point In 2000, Chase focused her MIT business training on a car-sharing scheme imported from Europe and co-founded Zipcar , now the largest car-sharing business in the world. Using a wireless key, location awareness and Internet billing, members pick up Zipcars at myriad locations anytime they want one.,Now Chase has launched Buzzcar , a car-sharing service in France with a twist instead of a fleet of green Zipcars, the service lets users share their own cars and make money off their unused capacity. Call it peer-to-peer auto rental.
Ben, Saunders,Why bother leaving the house?,Arctic explorer, bensaunders.com,,Although most of the planet's surface was mapped long ago, there's still a place for explorers in the modern world. And Ben Saunders' stories of arctic exploration -- as impressive for their technical ingenuity as their derring-do -- are decidedly modern. In 2004, at age 26, he skied solo to the North Pole, updating his blog each day of the trip. Humble and self-effacing, Saunders is an explorer of limits, whether it's how far a human can be pushed physically and psychologically, or how technology works hundreds of miles from civilization. His message is one of inspiration, empowerment and boundless potential. He urges audiences to consider carefully how to spend the “tiny amount of time we each have on this planet.” Saunders is also a powerful advocate for the natural world. He's seen first-hand the effects of climate change, and his expeditions are raising awareness for sustainable solutions.,Being the youngest person to ski solo to the North Pole did not satiate Saunders' urge to explore and push the boundaries. In 2008, he attempted to break the speed record for a solo walk to the North Pole, however, his journey was ended abruptly both then and again in 2010 due to equipment failure. From October 2013 to February 2014, he led a two-man team to retrace Captain Robert Falcon Scott’s ill-fated 1,800-mile expedition to the South Pole on foot. He calls this journey the hardest 105 days of his life.
Marcus, Byrne,The dance of the dung beetle,Entomologist,www.marcusbyrnephotography.com/,,Marcus Byrne is professor of zoology and entomology at Wits University in Johannesburg, South Africa. His research explores what humans can learn from insects. One of the big questions he's focused on how can we control alien weeds, which threaten biodiversity? Byrne believes that insects may hold the 'magic bullet' for how to restrain the growth of these plants, which jockey for resources with native flora and fauna.,Byrne's work has also focused on the unique mechnics of the dung beetle. His research has shown that the dung beetle has a highly effective visual navigation system, that allows them to roll balls of animal dung with precision back to their home, even in the dark of night and the hottest of conditions. Byrne wonders can this beetle teach humans how to solve complex visual problems?
Maz ,Jobrani,A Saudi, an Indian and an Iranian walk into a Qatari bar ...,Comedian, MazJobrani.com,,Maz Jobrani is an actor and comedian who starred on the Axis of Evil Middle East Comedy Tour, a groundbreaking tour of the US and Middle Eastern countries, where it sold out 27 shows in Dubai, Beirut, Cairo, Kuwait and Amman. The Axis of Evil Comedy Central Special premiered in 2007 as, arguably, the first show on American TV with an all-Middle Eastern/American cast. In 2009 Jobrani performed in his first solo world tour, called Maz Jobrani Brown and Friendly, and is currently following up this tour with a second, titled Browner and Friendlier.,Jobrani's comedy pulls from his background as an Iran-born kid raised in Northern California. He pokes fun at cultural stereotypes of all kinds -- starting with the stereotype that Middle Eastern actors can only play a few kinds of roles in Hollywood. He's been working to develop rich characters in a variety of TV shows and films. His next project Jimmy Vestvood Amerikan Hero , described as a cross between a Middle Eastern Pink Panther and Bend It Like Beckham.
Markham, Nolan,How to separate fact and fiction online,Journalist,markhamnolan.com/,,Markham calls himself a literary mercenary. His main responsibility is to sift through news and information to see what's true and what's not. In the era of the ubiquitous and immediate cell phone photo, Twitter message and YouTube video, how do we verify and validate a piece of information arriving, say, from a region at war or one going through a natural disaster? As the managing editor of Storyful , that's a question he has to answer daily.,“Their mission is to 'pull the news from the noise.' They have built up reliable communities in a range of countries, so that when news breaks, they have contacts they can call on to help verify locally-originated social media content.” — Currybet.comEllen 't, Hoen,Pool medical patents, save lives,Medicine law expert,www.wipo.int/.../wipo_inn_nyc...,,Ellen ’t Hoen is an independent medicines law and policy consultant. In 2009, she founded the Medicines Patent Pool at WHO/UNITAID, to accelerate the availability of low-cost HIV treatments, especially antiretroviral medicines, in developing countries through patent licensing. In June 2012 she stepped down from the MPP, but remains involved in supporting it.,She is a research fellow at the IS HIV/AIDS Academy of the University of Amsterdam and authored the book The Global Politics of Pharmaceutical Monopoly Power. Drug patents, access, innovation and the application of the WTO Doha Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health. It' s available as a free download .
Lemon, Andersen,Please don't take my Air Jordans,Poet and actor,about.me/lemonandersen,,Lemon Andersen is a poet, spoken word artist and actor. He first garnered national attention appearing in Russell Simmons Def Poetry Jam on Broadway in 2002, which won a Tony Award for Best Special Theatrical Event and netted Andersen a Drama Desk nomination for his writing. Andersen also appeared in eight episodes of HBO’s ode to spoken word, Def Poetr y.,Over the past decade, he has performed in venues across the country, from New York’s Nuyorican Poets Café to Hollywood’s Kodak Theater. He has appeared in four Spike Lee films and was the subject of the documentary Lemon , a look at his journey from two-time felon to bold-faced name -- and how leaving one’s past behind just isn’t that simple.
Nina ,Tandon,Could tissue engineering mean personalized medicine?,Tissue engineering researcher,ninatandon.co/,,Nina Tandon studies electrical signaling in the context of tissue engineering, with the goal of creating “spare parts” for human implantation and/or disease models. After receiving a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Cooper Union, Nina worked on an electronic nose used to “smell” lung cancer as a Fulbright scholar in Rome. She studied electrical stimulation for cardiac tissue engineering at MIT and Columbia, and now continues her research on electrical stimulation for broader tissue-engineering applications. Tandon was a 2011 TED Fellow and a 2012 Senior Fellow.,“I love pointing out to my students that the cable equations we use to analyze transmission along nerves are the same ones developed for the transatlantic cable.” — Nina Tandon
Jeff ,Smith,Lessons in business ... from prison,Recovering politician,therecoveringpolitician.com/category/contributors/jeffs,,In 2004, Jeff Smith ran for the U.S. Congressional seat vacated by Dick Gephardt, and came this close to defeating Republican Russ Carnahan. His inspiring, but ultimately unsuccessful, campaign was documented in the award-winning documentary, Can Mr. Smith Get to Washington Anymore ? .,A year later, Smith ran for the Missouri State Senate and won in a hotly contested election. He quickly became a rising star in the legislative body, focusing on education reform and tax credits among other things. However, in 2009, the FBI opened a criminal investigation into whether Smith had lied about a violation in his 2004 campaign. He ultimately plead guilty and spent a year in jail. It’s a story he has told on This American Life .
Ludwick, Marishane,A bath without water,Entrepreneur,https//www.headboy.org/theteam/,,One day Ludwick Marishane and his best friend were sunbathing in the sweltering heat in their native Limpopo. Marishane's friend turned to him and said, Man, why doesn't somebody invent something that you can just put on your skin and then you don't have to bathe? Marishane, 17 at the time, thought Yeah, why not? It took six months of research to develop a formula for a lotion that cleanses cheaply and easily -- especially important for the 2.5 billion people worldwide who lack proper access to water and sanitation.,DryBath has the same effect as anti-bacterial cleanser, but it's odorless and creates a biodegradable film that cleanes and moisturizes the skin. Five years later, it's now available on the market. Marishane has since enrolled at the University of Cape Town in South Africa and was named the Global Student Entrepreneur of the Year in 2011.
Bobby, Ghosh,Why global jihad is losing,Editor,time.com/author/bobby-ghosh/,,Bobby Ghosh was the longest serving print journalist in Iraq until he left in 2007 to become Time 's World Editor. Formerly an editor-at-large for Time , his work encompasses his broad interests, from restaurant reviews to an extended interview with Egyptian president Mohammad Morsi for his latest cover story . He recently went on patrol in Yemen to view what many hope is the end of the transnational al-Qaeda movement. Ghosh is now the Managing Editor of Quartz .,To explore more of the ideas in Ghosh's talk, read his recent essay for Time Worldwide 11 Years After 9/11, the Holy World War Is Over and All Jihad is Local >>
Paolo, Cardini,Forget multitasking, try monotasking,Designer, PaoloCardini.com,,Paolo Cardini likes asking some important questions about the way we live, like Does multitasking actually help us become more efficient? How far will social networking go? Who are the players in the myriad conflicts in the Arab world? What is the next frontier in product development? -- and trying to answer them with playful designs, like his I Like Sit chaise lounge , which updates your Facebook status depending on your position, and MiddleField , a foosball table depicting different players in the Middle East. For TEDGlobal 2012 Cardini created a unique product called the MONOtask project . To help you deal with your overly multitasked life, Cardini has designed 3D-printed smartphone covers that downgrade your phone to be much dumber. Download your own cover plans and start monotasking >>,Cardini is currently an MFA Design Assistant Professor at Virginia Commonwealth University in Qatar.
Munir, Virani,Why I love vultures,Raptor biologist, wildlife photographer,www.peregrinefund.org/people/virani-munir,,Native Nairobian Munir Virani's young passion may have been cricket, but it was during his tournament prize trips to game reserves that he found his true calling wildlife. Specifically, the kind of wildlife people are disgusted by. More specifically, birds of prey. Munir earned a college degree in zoology and began working as a raptor biologist at the Peregrine Fund , devoted to the conservation of birds of prey worldwide, where he later became the Director of the Africa Program.,
Janine, Shepherd,A broken body isn't a broken person,Pilot,www.janineshepherd.com/,,Janine Shepherd is a walking paraplegic, she is also a pilot and aerobatics instructor, as well as a motivational speaker and author.,A champion cross-country skier in training for the winter Olympics, Janine’s life changed forever when she was hit by a truck during a bicycle ride in the Blue Mountains of Australia. Doctors did not expect her to survive and, when she did, they warned her that she would never walk again.
Jonas, Eliasson,How to solve traffic jams,Transportation specialist,https//www.kth.se/.../Member.php?...JElias..,,Jonas Eliasson studies how small charges on crowded bridges effect traffic, what makes a person opt to bike to work and how far people choose to live from public transportation. The Director of the Centre for Transport Studies at Sweden’s Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Eliasson helped design, plan and evaluate Stockholm’s congestion tax, which was piloted in 2006 and made permanent in 2007. Eliasson is frequently brought on by other cities that are considering similar fees for rush hour use of crowded roads.,Eliasson has modeled and appraised several major infrastructure investments in Sweden, and chairs the committee for transport modeling of the country’s National Transport Investment Plan.
Ernesto, Sirolli,Want to help someone? Shut up and listen!,Sustainable development expert,sirolli.com/,,Ernesto Sirolli is a noted authority in the field of sustainable economic development and is the Founder of the Sirolli Institute, an international non-profit organization that teaches community leaders how to establish and maintain Enterprise Facilitation projects in their community. The Institute is now training communities in the USA, Canada, Australia, England and Scotland.,In 1985, he pioneered in Esperance, a small rural community in Western Australia, a unique economic development approach based on harnessing the passion, determination, intelligence, and resourcefulness of the local people. The striking results of The Esperance Experience have prompted more than 250 communities around the world to adopt responsive, person-centered approaches to local economic development similar to the Enterprise Facilitation® model pioneered in Esperance.
Candy ,Chang,Before I die I want to...,Artist, designer, urban planner, candychang.com,,Candy Chang is an artist, designer, and urban planner who explores making cities more comfortable and contemplative places. She believes in the potential of introspection and collective wisdom in public space to improve our communities and help us lead better lives.,Recent projects include Before I Die, where she transformed an abandoned house in her neighborhood in New Orleans into an interactive wall for people to share their hopes and dreams -- a project The Atlantic called “one of the most creative community projects ever.” Other projects include I Wish This Was, a street art project that invites people to voice what they want in vacant storefronts, and Neighborland, an online tool that helps people self-organize and shape the development of their communities. She is a TED Senior Fellow, an Urban Innovation Fellow, and was named a “Live Your Best Life” Local Hero by Oprah magazine. By combining street art with urban planning and social activism, she has been recognized as a leader in developing new strategies for the design of our cities. She is co-founder of Civic Center, an art and design studio in New Orleans. See more at candychang.com .
Louie, Schwartzberg,Nature. Beauty. Gratitude.,Filmmaker,movingart.com,,Louie Schwartzberg's career spans feature films, television shows, commercials and documentaries. His film Wings of Life , narrated by Meryl Streep, was released by Disneynature in April 2013, and his most recent film, Mysteries of the Unseen World , is a National Geographic 3D Imax that journeys into invisible worlds that are too slow, too fast, too small and too vast for the human eye to see.,Schwartzberg founded Moving Art to use the power of media to inspire and entertain through television programming, DVD products, and full-length motion picture and Imax films. His art is about breaking barriers, connecting with audiences, and telling stories that celebrate life and reveal the mysteries and wisdom of nature, people and places. Several of his film shorts have gone viral, including “Gratitude” and “Beauty of Pollination” with 36MM+ web views, and spawned related media (books, webinars, and more). Custom Ultra HD Moving Art pieces created by Schwartzberg can also be found in high-end hospitality venues around the world starting in 2014. For Schwartzberg, the greatest satisfaction is creating works that can have a positive effect on the future of the planet. “I hope my films inspire and open people’s hearts. Beauty is nature’s tool for survival – you protect what you love. If I can move enough people on an emotional level, I hope we can achieve the shift in consciousness we need to sustain and celebrate life.”
Sleepy Man, Banjo Boys,Teen wonders play bluegrass,Bluegrass musicians,sleepyman.com/,,These days your kid can get famous on YouTube for having water sprayed at him, for being duped about his Halloween candy, and for being high off laughing gas. But what if your 8-year-old gets famous on the Internet for being an absolute genius on the banjo? So goes the story of Jonny Mizzone, who first became a YouTube sensation in early 2011 for videos of him and his brothers tearing it up playing Earl Scruggs's Flint Hill Special . It wasn't long before the press started calling.,Now Jonny, Robbie (fiddle) and Tommy (guitar), known as the Sleepy Man Banjo Boys, are 11, 14 and 15 respectively. In 2011 alone they got calls from The Ellen DeGeneres Show , Jimmy Kimmel Live and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno , and in the summer of 2011 they appeared as musical guests on The Late Show with David Letterman and NBC’s Today Show .
Amos, Winter,The cheap all-terrain wheelchair,Mechanical engineer,web.mit.edu/awinter/www/,,Amos Winter wants to know How do you redesign the wheelchair, an essential aid for millions, to be even better, more affordable, adaptable for the developing world, and able to face any type of terrain or weather? The answer is the Leveraged Freedom Chair. Integrating science, engineering and user-driven design, Winter has developed a wheelchair that uses arm-powered levers that yield surprisingly simple, highly effective mechanical results. Even better, cheap parts means the chair costs under $200 and can be repaired easily, even in rural communities where resources are scarce.,
Daphne, Bavelier,Your brain on video games,Cognitive researcher,www.bcs.rochester.edu/people/daphne/,,Daphne Bavelier studies how humans learn -- in particular, how the brain adapts to changes in experience, either by nature (for example, deafness) or by training (for example, playing video games). At her lab, her work shows that playing fast-paced, action-packed entertainment video games typically thought to be mind-numbing actually benefits several aspects of behavior. Exploiting this counterintuitive finding, her lab now investigates how new media, such as video games, can be leveraged to foster learning and brain plasticity.,
David, Binder,The arts festival revolution,Theater producer,davidbinderproductions.com/,,David Binder produced the Tony-winning Broadway revival of A Raisin in the Sun, with Sean Combs, Phylicia Rashad and Audra McDonald, and the Broadway premiere of 33 Variations with Jane Fonda. However, he is equally well-known for his Off Broadway accomplishments, including producing the rowdy rock musical Hedwig and the Angry Inch and De la Guarda , a high-energy show with performers hanging from the venue ceiling and walls.,Binder has also staged events and festivals around the globe, including The High Line Festival (which was curated by David Bowie),The New Island Festival (ten days of Dutch-specific theater, dance and music in New York City) and IBM's 100th Anniversary Short Ride in a Fast Machine (held at Lincoln Center).
Leah, Buechley,How to sketch with electronics,Designer,leahbuechley.com/,,Electronics aren't just for experts and engineers. Kids and amateurs should be able to play, too, which is why Leah Buechley designs little paper-based electronics for sketching and interactive electronic fashion for tinkering. Buechley designs and creates electronic textiles, or e-textiles, like this jacket that can signal which way you're turning on your bike . She's an assistant professor of Media Arts and Sciences at the MIT Media Lab, where she also directs the High-Low Tech research group.,
Hannah, Brencher,Love letters to strangers,Letter enthusiast,MoreLoveLetters.com,,Hannah Brechner has always loved that her family communicates via handwritten letters. In October of 2010, she began writing love letters intended for strangers and tucking them away in libraries and cafes across New York City, for people to randomly discover. Soon, she offered on her blog HannahBrencher.com to write a letter to anyone who needed one. Over the next year, she mailed out more than 400 hand-penned letters. Today she runs The World Needs More Love Letters , a letter exchange dedicated to connecting strangers across the globe through the art of letter writing.,In addition, Brencher works as a copywriter and creative consultant, helping brands inject human touches into their communications plans.
Arunachalam, Muruganantham,How I started a sanitary napkin revolution!,Inventor, newinventions.in,,Arunachalam Muruganantham of Jayaashree Industries designed, created, tested and implemented a sanitary napkin-making machine that operates on a small scale.,Contrary to a large-scale production model which requires Rs.3.5 Crores as initial investment, Jayaashree Industries sanitary napkin-making machine can be made available to a buyer for approximately Rs.65,000. This allows smaller players to adopt the business model propagated by him, and thus generates more employment and wealth in the most neglected sections of society. More specifically, an empowerment forum – such as a Self Help Group or a women’s group – can invest in a sanitary napkin-making unit to create a business that employs up to ten women. The new invention is capable of making 120 napkins per hour.
Julie, Burstein,4 lessons in creativity,Writer and radio producer, julieburstein.com,,From where does creativity flow? In 2000, Julie Burstein created Public Radio International's show Studio 360 to explore pop culture and the arts. Hosted by novelist Kurt Andersen and produced at WNYC, the show is a guide to what's interesting now -- and asks deep questions about the drive behind creative work. Now, Burstein has written Spark How Creativity Works , filled with stories about artists, writers and musicians (like Chuck Close, Isabel Allende, Patti Lupone). Burstein is the host of pursuitofspark.com full of conversations about creative approaches to the challenges, possibilities and pleasures of everyday life and work. She also loves sitting in for Leonard Lopate.,“Spark is about joy, drive, and art, work that we’re all capable of if we’ll only commit.” — Seth Godin
Jeff, Hancock,The future of lying,Psychologist,jeff-hancock.com/,,Jeff Hancock is fascinated by the words we choose when sending text messages, composing emails and writing online profiles. An Associate Professor of Cognitive Science and Communications at Cornell University, his research has focused on how people use deception and irony when communicating through cell phones and online platforms. His idea that while the impersonality of online interaction can encourage mild fibbing, the fact that it leaves a permanent record of verifiable facts actually keeps us on the straight and narrow.,Hancock has also studied how we form impressions of others online, how we manage others' impressions of ourselves, and how individual personalities interact with online groups.
Georgette, Mulheir,The tragedy of orphanages,CEO, Lumos,wearelumos.org/about/our-team/georgette-mulheir,,We know that the early years of a person's life are critical for social and cognitive development, and that the adults present during that time have a strong influence on this growth -- so why is it so common for society to separate child and parent? Why are 1 million children across Europe and Central Asia living in large orphanages, which are harmful to their health and psyches? Georgette Mulheir wants to put an end to this practice. She works tirelessly as the CEO of Lumos, an NGO founded by JK Rowling dedicated to ending worldwide systematic institutionalization. For the past 20 years Mulheir has worked primarily in Central and Eastern Europe to shift resources away from orphanages and toward alternate family services, such as foster care and day support. Since she started working in Romania in 1993, the landscape there has improved dramatically -- from 200,000 children in orphanages to 20,000.,
Gary, Greenberg,The beautiful nano details of our world,Micro photographer,www.garygreenbergonline.com/,,A photographer and filmmaker with a Ph.D. in biomedical research, Gary Greenberg creates new ways to capture the spectacular landscapes that are hidden from everyday perception inside grains of sand, human cells and flower petals. Using high-definition, three-dimensional light microscopes -- for which he holds 18 patents -- Greenberg makes the miracles of nature tangible, exposing their hidden details. Most recently, Greenberg turned his attention to sand grains, photographing samples from around the world for the book, A Grain of Sand Nature's Secret Wonder . For it, Greenberg even photographed moon sand returned from NASA’s Apollo 11 Mission.,Greenberg has also taught at the University of Southern California and has been a featured artist at the Science Museum of Minnesota.
Jake, Wood,A new mission for veterans — disaster relief,CEO, Team Rubicon,jake-wood.com,,Jake Wood served as a sergeant in the United States Marine Corps, with deployments to both Iraq and Afghanistan as a Scout Sniper. He received numerous awards in combat, and was the Honor Graduate of Recruit Training from the School of Infantry and Marine Scout Sniper Course. In 2010, along with former Marine William McNulty, he founded Team Rubicon .,As a leading veteran advocate, Jake speaks about issues facing returning veterans and is a member of numerous U.S. committees on the topic. He is also the cofounder of POS REP , the first mobile, proximity-based social network designed exclusively for the veteran community.
Matt, Killingsworth,Want to be happier? Stay in the moment,Happiness researcher,https//www.trackyourhappiness.org/,,While doing his PhD research with Dan Gilbert at Harvard, Matt Killingsworth invented a nifty tool for investigating happiness an iPhone app called Track Your Happiness that captured feelings in real time. (Basically, it pings you at random times and asks How are you feeling right now, and what are you doing?) Data captured from the study became the landmark paper A Wandering Mind Is an Unhappy Mind ( PDF ).,As an undergrad, Killingsworth studied economics and engineering, and worked for a few years as a software product manager -- an experience during which, he says, I began to question my assumptions about what defined success for an individual, an organization, or a society. He's now a Robert Wood Johnson Health and Society Scholar examining such topics as the relationship between happiness and the content of everyday experiences, the percentage of everyday experiences that are intrinsically valuable, and the degree of congruence between the causes of momentary happiness and of one’s overall satisfaction with life.
Faith, Jegede,What I've learned from my autistic brothers,Writer,thefaithjegedeblog.tumblr.com/,,Faith Jegede is a word lover and a truth seeker. She blogs words and moments she finds inspiring, oftentimes in pursuit of causes she believes in, like autism awareness. Most recently Jegede worked as the creator, presenter and producer of “What’s In Yours?, a twice-weekly hour-long talk radio show, in which she gets to know guests -- by diving deep into their bags.,
Adam, Garone,Healthier men, one moustache at a time,Moustache activist,https//us.movember.com/mospace/3,,With a background in web and mobile marketing, Australian native Adam Garone's career took a left turn in 2003 when his brother challenged him to grow out a moustache. The two wondered if they could bring the moustache back in vogue and, in the process, raise awareness for men's health along with money for prostate cancer research. Thus began the Movember movement. Garone serves as CEO.,The Movember challenge is simple men begin November 1st clean shaven and, for the next 30 days, grow out their moustaches while seeking out sponsorship for their efforts. The proceeds go to the Prostate Cancer Foundation as well as Livestrong. In 2011, Movember raised $126 million in 14 countries.
Emma, Teeling,The secret of the bat genome,Zoologist, batlab.ucd.ie,,One-fifth of all mammals in the world are bats -- so why are they so stigmatized in Western culture? Dr. Emma Teeling believes that these fascinating creatures have a lot to teach us, with their uniquely high metabolic rates and surprisingly long lifespans. Teeling studies mammalian phylogenetics and comparative genomics, with particular expertise in bat biology and the bat's genetic signatures of survival.,
Sanjay, Pradhan,How open data is changing international aid,Development Leader,www.sanjaypradhan.me,,The World Bank Institute is the part of the World Bank that focuses on capacity -- the piece of polite jargon that masks a big question How do countries learn? And in a state with a history of corruption, failure and debt, how can leaders -- both public and private-sector -- gain the ability to grow, build, govern? The WBI teaches those skills, focusing on the key force behind real change building teams and coalitions.,Sanjay Pradhan joined the WBI in 2008, and has worked since then to refine its strategy into three interconnected plans Open Knowledge, Collaborative Governance, and Innovative Solutions. He is an advocate of transparency and openness as development tools.
Rory, Stewart,Why democracy matters,Politician, rorystewart.co.uk,,Now the member of British Parliament for Penrith and the Border, in rural northwest England, Rory Stewart has led a fascinatingly broad life of public service. He joined the Foreign Office after school, then left to begin a years-long series of walks across the Muslim world. In 2002, his extraordinary walk across post-9/11 Afghanistan resulted in his first book, The Places in Between . After the invasion of Iraq in 2003, he served as a Deputy Governorate Co-Ordinator in Southern Iraq for the coalition forces, and later founded a charity in Kabul.,To secure his Conservative seat in Parliament, he went on a walking tour of Penrith, covering the entire county as he talked to voters. In 2008, Esquire called him one of the 75 most influential people of the 21st century.
Marco ,Tempest,A cyber-magic card trick like no other,Techno-illusionist,marcotempest.com,,Marco Tempest’s imaginative combination of computer-generated imagery, quick-cut video and enthusiastic stage presence has earned him a place in the pantheon of great illusionists. At 22, the Swiss magician won the New York World Cup of Magic, launching him into international prominence. His lively phonecam postings on YouTube , done without post-production and video-editing tricks to astonished people on the street, get millions of views. At the MIT Media Lab , Tempest is researching the link between magic and technology as a Director's Fellow.,Through his art, Tempest creates a highly entertaining way to be entranced by the reality-bending tech magic that surrounds us all every day. Watch more Marco magic courtesy of Scobleizer ... or see Marco profiled on CNN.com's Next List .
Doris, Kim Sung,Metal that breathes,Architect,dosu-arch.com/about.html,,Architect Doris Kim Sung asks Why can't building materials be more adaptable? Why can't they function more like clothing, or even human skin? Having studied biology at Princeton University intending to go to medical school, Sung applies principles of biology to her work as an assistant professor of architecture at the University of Southern California. She explores architecture as an extension of the body, challenging the notion that buildings ought to be static and climate-controlled. Rather, they should be able to adapt to their environment through self-ventilation. In November 2011, Sung exhibited her art installation Bloom in Silver Lake, Los Angeles. The installation is 20 feet tall and made with 14,000 completely unique pieces of thermo-bimetal, a smart material made of two different metals laminated together. This metal is dynamic and responsive, curling as air temperatures rise, resulting in a beautiful sculpture that breathes.,
Lemn, Sissay,A child of the state,Poet and playwright, LemnSissay.com,,Lemn Sissay wears many hats as a writer and performer.,The author of five poetry collections, Sissay's poems dot the London landscape and are etched into major landmarks, from the site of the 2012 Summer Olympics to The Royal Festival Hall. In 2006, Desmond Tutu unveiled his sculpture poem Gilt of Cain, located near Fenchurch Street Station. Currently an associate artist at Southbank Centre and patron of the Letterbox Club , Sissay was named the official poet of the London 2012 Olympics. His poetry art has also been displayed at The Royal Academy.
David, Pizarro,The strange politics of disgust,Psychologist, Disgust researcher,psych.cornell.edu,,It's common knowledge that our emotions can have a strong effect on our behavior and judgment. But why would an emotion like disgust, evolutionarily developed to protect us from poisons and other dangerous substances, have any influence on our political leanings today? David Pizarro, associate professor at Cornell University, is studying this surprising phenomenon Sensitivity to disgusting sensations (like a photo of feces, or being reminded that germs are everywhere) correlates to moral and political conservatism. In his studies he has demonstrated that exposing people to an unpleasant odor can increase negative feelings toward homosexual men.,
Pankaj, Ghemawat,Actually, the world isn't flat,Globalization researcher, Ghemawat.com,,There seem to be two leading views of globalization either that it is done and the world is flat (a view popularized by Tom Friedman) or that it has led to a world dominated by corporations (Naomi Klein). Pankaj Ghemawat disagrees with both -- and his case, backed by data, can be convincing. His most recent book, World 3.0 , based on extensive research and backed up with abundant data, explores the true face of globalization--and shows that the world is not one vast market, but many small, interconnected, discrete entities, with varying degrees of openness to one another. That even the most open economies are still relatively closed. That we live in a world of semi-globalization at best. Ghemawat also refutes the assumption that globalization leads to homogeneization. According to The Economist , World 3.0 “should be read by anyone who wants to understand the most important economic development of our time.”,Ghemawat is a professor of strategic management at IESE Business School in Spain. In his latest work, he explores another kind of networked economy--the cross-border geography of Facebook and Twitter followers.
Ryan, Merkley,Online video — annotated, remixed and popped,COO, Mozilla Foundation,progressivecities.ca,,A native of Toronto, Canada, Ryan Merkley is the Chief Operating Officer at the Mozilla Foundation. He has devoted his career to helping users of the web become makers of the web. Merkley advocates for open data initiatives, especially in regards to the public sector.,
Heather, Brooke,My battle to expose government corruption,Journalist, HeatherBrooke.org,,Heather Brooke is a freelance journalist, freedom of information campaigner and professor of journalism at City University London. In 2005, she filed one of the very first requests under the UK's Freedom of Information Act, asking to see the expense reports of Members of Parliament. The request was blocked, modified and refiled, and blocked again...but the years-long quest to view expense documents, and the subsequent investigation, led to 2009's parliamentary expenses scandal. The scandal led to the first forced resignation of the Speaker of the House in 300 years.,Brooke worked as a political and crime reporter in the US before moving to Britain, where she writes for the national papers. She has published three books Y our Right to Know , The Silent State , and 2011's The Revolution Will Be Digitised . It was while researching her latest book that she obtained a leak from Wikileaks of the full batch of 251,287 US diplomatic cables and worked with The Guardian newspaper on an investigation.
Beau, Lotto + Amy O'Toole,Science is for everyone, kids included,Neuroscientist, Artist, Lottolab.com,,Let there be perception, was evolution's proclamation, and so it was that all creatures, from honeybees to humans, came to see the world not as it is, but as was most useful. This uncomfortable place--where what an organism's brain sees diverges from what is actually out there--is what Beau Lotto and his team at Lottolab are exploring through their dazzling art-sci experiments and public illusions. Their Bee Matrix installation, for example, places a live bee in a transparent enclosure where gallerygoers may watch it seek nectar in a virtual meadow of luminous Plexiglas flowers. (Bees, Lotto will tell you, see colors much like we humans do.) The data captured isn't just discarded, either it's put to good use in probing scientific papers, and sometimes in more exhibits. At their home in London’s Science Museum , the lab holds synesthetic workshops where kids and adults make abstract paintings that computers interpret into music, and they host regular Lates--evenings of science, music and mass experiments. Lotto is passionate about involving people from all walks of life in research on perception--both as subjects and as fellow researchers. One such program, called i,scientist, in fact led to the publication of the first ever peer-reviewed scientific paper written by schoolchildren (Blackawton Bees, December 2010). It starts, Once upon a time ...,These and Lotto's other conjurings are slowly, charmingly bending the science of perception--and our perceptions of what science can be.
John, Wilbanks,Let's pool our medical data,Data Commons Advocate, WeConsent.us,,Performing a medical or genomic experiment on a human requires informed consent and careful boundaries around privacy. But what if the data that results, once scrubbed of identifying marks, was released into the wild? At WeConsent.us , John Wilbanks thinks through the ethical and procedural steps to create an open, massive, mine-able database of data about health and genomics from many sources. One step the Portable Legal Consent for Common Genomics Research (PLC-CGR), an experimental bioethics protocol that would allow any test subject to say, Yes, once this experiment is over, you can use my data, anonymously, to answer any other questions you can think of. Compiling piles of test results in one place, Wilbanks suggests, would turn genetic info into big data--giving researchers the potential to spot patterns that simply aren't viewable up close.,A campaigner for the wide adoption of data sharing in science, Wilbanks is also a Senior Fellow with the Kauffman Foundation , a Research Fellow at Lybba and supported by Sage Bionetworks .
Eddie, Obeng,Smart failure for a fast-changing world,Business Educator, PentacleTheVBS.com,,What will business look like in 5 years? (Er, what does it look like now?) Eddie Obeng helps executives keep up with a business and social environment that's changing faster than we can know. Through Pentacle , his online business school, Obeng teaches a theory of management that focuses on adaptation to change. Called New World Management, it's all about forming and re-forming workgroups, constantly re-evaluating metrics, and being open to all kinds of learning, from hands-on group exercises to a virtual lecture hall/meeting room called the QUBE.,“'Making it happen' is Obeng’s constant refrain and his books are an antidote to the dryness of much managerial theorizing. They come complete with their lessons in fictional form. Old world they are not.” — Financial Times
Maurizio, Seracini,The secret lives of paintings,Art diagnostician,maurizio-seracini.blogspot.com/,,It’s surprising to hear of a former engineer and medical student who has dedicated his career to the analysis of more than 2,500 works of art. But Maurizio Seracini is not your typical art connoisseur. He uses technologies from both of his worlds, such as multispectral imaging, sonogram and x-ray, to peer through the layers of paintings and reveal their secrets.,Most famous is Seracini’s more-than-30-year quest to find Leonardo Da Vinci’s missing painting The Battle of Anghiari. Seracini suspects the piece is behind another giant fresco painted by Giorgio Vasari in the Sala dei Cinquecento in Florence, Italy. To find it, Seracini must find a way to look beneath Vasari’s masterpiece while keeping it intact.
Melissa, Marshall,Talk nerdy to me,Communications teacher,PresentYourScience.com,,,“[Marshall says] that 'science not communicated is science not done' – love that quote! ” — Indezine
Ruby, Wax,What's so funny about mental illness?,Comedian and Mental Health Activist, BlackDogTribe.com,,Winston Churchill called it the Black Dog -- a depression that settled over him and drained the flavor from life. Ruby Wax knows the Black Dog well, throughout the '80s and '90s, during a flourishing career as a brash comedian and interviewer in the UK, it trotted at her heels, even while she was interviewing the Duchess of York and sorting through Imelda Marcos' shoes.,After taking a timeout to learn how to manage the condition, Wax produced a stand-up comedy show called Losing It that directly addresses her mental health experiences, hilariously but powerfully. And she's started up a new social network called the Black Dog Tribe , which offers a community and support to people with depression. Meanwhile, she's working on her Master's in cognitive therapy.
John, Maeda,How art, technology and design inform creative leaders,Artist,our.risd.edu,,When John Maeda became president of the legendary Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) in 2008, he told the Wall Street Journal , Everyone asks me, 'Are you bringing technology to RISD?' I tell them, no, I'm bringing RISD to technology.,In his fascinating career as a programmer and an artist, he's always been committed to blurring the lines between the two disciplines. As a student at MIT, studying computer programming, the legendary Muriel Cooper persuaded him to follow his parallel passion for fine art and design. And when computer-aided design began to explode in the mid-1990s, Maeda was in a perfect position at the MIT Media Lab to influence and shape the form, helping typographers and page designers explore the freedom of the web.
Tim, Leberecht,3 ways to (usefully) lose control of your brand,Marketer,timleberecht.com,,Tim Leberecht is the chief marketing officer of NBBJ, a global design and architecture firm, and the author of The Business Romantic . Previously, he was the chief marketing officer of Frog Design, a product design and strategy firm. His writing has appeared in publications such as Fast Company, Forbes, Fortune, and Wired . Leberecht is the co-founder of the 15 Toasts dinner series and an advisor to The Human Agency, a collective of social change-makers. He serves on the World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Council on Values and on the board of Jump Associates, a strategy and innovation consultancy,Read his blog post about giving his TEDGlobal 2012 talk >>
Thomas, P. Campbell,Weaving narratives in museum galleries,Museum director,www.metmuseum.org/.../now-at-the-met?...,,Thomas P. Campbell became the ninth Director of The Metropolitan Museum of Art in January of 2009. Since he began, Campbell has pursued an agenda for the Met that focuses on scholarship and accessibility. These priorities maintain the Museum’s excellence in its exhibitions, publications, acquisitions and permanent collections, while encouraging new thinking about the visitor experience. Further initiatives include exploring the judicious use of technology in the Museum and fully integrating education into all the Met’s activities.,Campbell led the Met through the fiscal setbacks caused by the 2008 recession without reducing hours, gallery openings or programs. He launched an effort to redesign the Museum’s website which now attracts more than 50 million visits per year. FY2011 also saw the Met’s highest attendance in 40 years, rising to 5.6 million. The Museum has just opened new galleries for its Islamic Art Department and American Wing, and is working on plans to renovate The Costume Institute and to reconfigure the outdoor plaza and fountains. In 2011, Campbell announced a collaboration with the Whitney Museum in which the Met will program its landmark Breuer Building on Madison Avenue starting in 2015.
Shimon, Schocken,The self-organizing computer course,Computer Scientist, Educator, ShimonSchocken.com,,Shimon Schocken is a former dean at Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya , a new Israeli private university which he helped found in 1995. He's also taught at NYU, Harvard and Stanford. Together with Noam Nisan he developed a freely available, open-source, self-paced program for learning applied computer science The Elements of Computing Systems . Offered in 2005, this led to one of the first successful open online courses. Now, courses based on the approach are offered by traditional universities as well as in crowd-sourced settings, and have been taken freely by thousands of self-learners over the web. Registration, lecture and project schedules are managed by volunteer course coordinators, and student questions are answered by the course alumni community.,His current project focuses on developing instructional materials for early-age math education, which he thinks can be transformed using low-cost tablet computers. He uses his other life passion, mountain biking, to teach adolescent boys in Israel?s juvenile detention centers valuable life lessons through challenging bike rides in remote locations. He was co-organizer and program chair of TEDxTelAviv 2010 .
Jason, McCue,Terrorism is a failed brand,Lawyer,www.mccue-law.com/the-partners/,,Jason McCue uses the legal system of the UK (and increasingly the world) to fight for human rights. In 2009, he won a landmark civil case at the high court in Belfast that resulted in a settlement for victims of the 1998 Omagh bombing by the Real IRA -- after attempts to prosecute the group in criminal courts had failed. It was a bold legal strategy now being copied for other victims, such as those of Libyan-supported terrorism and of the attacks in London and Mumbai. In September 2011 he and his firm launched another strategy for prosecuting Alexander Lukashenko , the dictator of Belarus, on counts of torture and hostage-taking creating a prosecution kit to be sent to courts around the world. Wherever Lukashenko travels, he now faces the prospect of prosecution.,McCue is also a partner, with his wife, TV star Mariella Frostrup, of the GREAT Initiative  the Gender Rights and Equality Action Trust.
Robert, Gupta,Between music and medicine,Violinist,www.violinist.com/directory/bio.cfm?member=rgupta,,Violinist Robert Vijay Gupta joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic at the age of 19. He made his solo debut, at age 11, with the Israel Philharmonic under Zubin Mehta. He has a Master's in music from Yale. But his undergraduate degree? Pre-med. As an undergrad, Gupta was part of several research projects in neuro- and neurodegenerative biology. He held Research Assistant positions at CUNY Hunter College in New York City, where he worked on spinal cord neuronal regeneration, and at the Harvard Institutes of Medicine Center for Neurologic Diseases, where he studied the biochemical pathology of Parkinson's disease.,Gupta is passionate about education and outreach, both as a musician and as an activist for mental health issues. He has the privilege of working with Nathaniel Ayers, the brilliant, schizophrenic musician featured in The Soloist, as his violin teacher.
Amy, Cuddy,Your body language shapes who you are,Social Psychologist,cuddy.socialpsychology.org/,,Amy Cuddy wasn’t supposed to become a successful scientist. In fact, she wasn’t even supposed to finish her undergraduate degree. Early in her college career, Cuddy suffered a severe head injury in a car accident, and doctors said she would struggle to fully regain her mental capacity and finish her undergraduate degree.,But she proved them wrong. Today, Cuddy is a professor and researcher at Harvard Business School , where she studies how nonverbal behavior and snap judgments affect people from the classroom to the boardroom. And her training as a classical dancer (another skill she regained after her injury) is evident in her fascinating work on  power posing  -- how your body position influences others and even your own brain.
Vicki, Arroyo,Let's prepare for our new climate,Environmental policy influencer,www.georgetownclimate.org/about-us/staff-bios,,The climate is quickly changing. Scientists increasingly talk of a new period in the Earth's history, the anthropocene, in which human impact on the planet has become dominant. Yet we remain unprepared to deal with the consequences specifically, the disruption and cost. Lawyer Vicki Arroyo, the executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center , works on climate mitigation and adaptation policies as viable solutions to climate change’s inevitable disruptions to current practices. Using the best available science, Arroyo collaborates with US policymakers at both the state and federal level to develop planetary management strategies.,For a through (and constantly updated) toolkit of adaptation resources, visit the Georgetown Climate Center >>
Aris, Venetikidis,Making sense of maps,Mapmaker, venetikidis.com,,Aris Venetikidis is a graphic designer with a passion for map design and public transport network visualisation. His project “ Designing an integrated map for a visionary public transport network in Dublin ” earned him the IDI Graduate Masters Award and IDI Graduate Grand Prix in 2010, as well as press coverage in major Irish and Greek newspapers. Aris studied at the National College of Art and Design ind Dublin and has been working as a designer in agencies or as an independent designer and photographer since.,
Bahia, Shehab,A thousand times no,Artist and historian,www.khtt.net/person/409/en,,A Lebanese-Egyptian artist, designer and art historian, Bahia Shehab studies ancient Arabic script and applies it to modern-day issues. She is the Creative Director with MI7-Cairo, working on projects relevant to cultural heritage. Shehab is also an associate professor at the American University in Cairo, where she has developed a four-year Graphic Design program focusing on the discipline in the Arab world. In addition, Shehab is a TED Fellow and a PhD candidate at Leiden University in Holland.,Shehab notably created a De Beers campaign, which won an International Advertising Association gold award. Her installation A Thousand Times No was displayed at the Haus der Kunst in Munich, Germany, and was published as a book by The Khatt Foundation.
Ben, Goldacre,What doctors don't know about the drugs they prescribe,Debunker, alltrials.net,,It was the MMR story that finally made me crack, begins the Bad Science manifesto, referring to the sensationalized -- and now-refuted -- link between vaccines and autism. With that sentence Ben Goldacre fired the starting shot of a crusade waged from the pages of The Guardian from 2003 to 2011, on an addicitve Twitter feed, and in bestselling books, including Bad Science and his latest, Bad Pharma , which puts the $600 billion global pharmaceutical industry under the microscope. What he reveals is a fascinating, terrifying mess. Goldacre was trained in medicine at Oxford and London, and works as an academic in epidemiology. Helped along by this inexhaustible supply of material, he also travels the speaking circuit, promoting skepticism and nerdish curiosity with fire, wit, fast delivery and a lovable kind of exasperation. (He might even convince you that real science, sober reporting and reason are going to win in the end.),As he writes, If you're a journalist who misrepresents science for the sake of a headline, a politician more interested in spin than evidence, or an advertiser who loves pictures of molecules in little white coats, then beware your days are numbered.
John, Lloyd,An animated tour of the invisible,Producer,www.imdb.com/name/nm0516032/,,John Lloyd seems to have known every brilliant and funny person in Britain, and his collaborations are legendary. He's been a fixture on the BBC for four decades, producing such classic comedies as Blackadder , Spitting Image , the BBC's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and lately QI (short for Quite Interesting), hosted by Stephen Fry (read his Reddit AMA about it). Lloyd has also written more than a dozen funny books -- including The Meaning of Liff , a collaboration with his friend Douglas Adams, which has been in print for 26 years.,“If John Cleese is the Pope of comedy, John is the Cardinal. He is the kingmaker because he is this unbelievable source of comic wisdom.” — Griff Rhys Jones, The Independent
Clay, Shirky,How the Internet will (one day) transform government,Social Media Theorist,www.shirky.com/,,Clay Shirky's work focuses on the rising usefulness of networks -- using decentralized technologies such as peer-to-peer sharing, wireless, software for social creation, and open-source development. New technologies are enabling new kinds of cooperative structures to flourish as a way of getting things done in business, science, the arts and elsewhere, as an alternative to centralized and institutional structures, which he sees as self-limiting. In his writings and speeches he has argued that a group is its own worst enemy.,Shirky is an adjunct professor in New York University?s graduate Interactive Telecommunications Program , where he teaches a course named “ Social Weather .” He?s the author of several books. This spring at the TED headquarters in New York, he gave an impassioned talk against SOPA/PIPA that saw 1 million views in 48 hours.
Read, Montague,What we're learning from 5,000 brains,Behavioral Neuroscientist, RoanokeBrainStudy.org,,Until recently, the world's curiosity about our brains seemed to focus on abnormal behavior. Which of course left a big question unanswered Do we even know what normal behavior is? Through the landmark Roanoke Brain Study , Read Montague is hoping to find that out, exploring the everyday tasks of brains -- making decisions, understanding social context, and relating to others -- by neuroimaging some 5,000 people, ages 18-85, over a period of many years.,Montague's teams in Virginia and in London lead fascinating research in computational neuroscience (how the brain's machinery works), offering insight into the relationship between the social and cognitive functions. For instance, a recent study from his group found that in small social groups, some people will alter the expression of their IQ in reaction to social pressures -- revising, in almost all cases, downward .
Andrew, McAfee,Are droids taking our jobs?,Management theorist, andrewmcafee.org,,Andrew McAfee studies the ways that information technology (IT) affects businesses, business as a whole, and the larger society. His research investigates how IT changes the way companies perform, organize themselves and compete. At a higher level, his work also investigates how computerization affects competition, society, the economy and the workforce.,He's a principal research scientist at the Center for Digital Business at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His books include Enterprise 2.0 and Race Against the Machine (with Erik Brynjolfsson). Read more on his blog .
Rachel, Botsman,The currency of the new economy is trust,Sharing Innovator, rachelbotsman.com,,Rachel Botsman is the co-author, with Roo Rogers, of the book What's Mine Is Yours The Rise of Collaborative Consumption , and she writes, consults and speaks on the power of collaboration and sharing through network technologies, and on how it will transform business, consumerism and the way we live. Her new work focuses on trust and reputation capital.,She is the founder of The Collaborative Lab , an innovation incubator that works with startups, big businesses and local governments to deliver innovative solutions based on the ideas of Collaborative Consumption. She has consulted to Fortune 500 companies and leading nonprofit organizations around the world on brand and innovation strategy, and was a former director at the William J. Clinton Foundation .
Ed, Gavagan,A story about knots and surgeons,Designer, Storyteller,www.praxisnyc.com/,,Ed Gavagan is the owner of PraxisNYC, a design firm specializing in boutique residences and aimed at designing for sustainability, habitability, durability and beauty. In 2007 Gavagan told the story “Drowning on Sullivan Street” at the Moth , the series devoted to stories told live without notes, about his near-death experience on the streets of New York as the victim of a gang initiation rite. His stories have been heard on NPR and the Moth podcast, and he has appeared onstage with the Moth in events across the U.S. Gavagan lives in New York City with his wife and daughter.,
Bandi, Mbubi,Demand a fair trade cell phone,Social Justice Activist, CongoCalling.org,,Bandi Mbubi grew up in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, formerly Zaire, experiencing first hand the political unrest and oppression which have since worsened there. As a student activist, Bandi suffered persecution and fled the country, seeking political asylum in the U.K. But Mbubi has kept his home country on his radar, noting how the mining of tantalum -- a mineral used in cell phones and computers -- has fueled the ongoing war there in which 5 million have died.,While Mbubi sees the cell phone as an instrument of oppression for this reason, he knows that phones can also bring great freedom. And so he has formed CongoCalling.org , a campaign to inspire both the public and companies that make electronics to pay attention to how tantalum used in consumer electronics is mined and traded.
Andrew, Blum,Discover the physical side of the internet,Network author, andrewblum.net,,In his book Tubes A Journey to the Center of the Internet , Andrew Blum wanted to capture the spirit of place of the Internet. Because as far-reaching and virtual as our connection to the Net is, the signals travel on good old-fashioned cabling, glass fibers jacketed in polymer, running through conduit under streets. The immaterial Internet runs on a very material, industry-like infrastructure. So that when Alaska senator Ted Stevens called the Internet a series of tubes ... well, he was kind of right, and he did inspire the title of this utterly fascinating book, which explores the switches, data centers, sea crossings and many, many tubes that make up our online reality.,Blum is a writer for Newsweek , and has written for Wired, Popular Science, Metropolis and more.
Julian, Treasure,Why architects need to use their ears,Sound consultant,JulianTreasure.com,,Julian Treasure is the chair of the Sound Agency , a firm that advises worldwide businesses -- offices, retailers, hotels -- on how to use sound. He asks us to pay attention to the sounds that surround us . How do they make us feel productive, stressed, energized, acquisitive?,Treasure is the author of the book Sound Business and keeps a blog by the same name that ruminates on aural matters (and offers a nice day-by-day writeup of TEDGlobal 2009). In the early 1980s, Treasure was the drummer for the Fall-influenced band Transmitters .
Sarah-Jayne, Blakemore,The mysterious workings of the adolescent brain,Cognitive Neuroscientist,https//sites.google.com/site/blakemorelab/,,Remember being a teenager? Rocked internally with hormones, outwardly with social pressures, you sometimes wondered what was going on in your head. So does Sarah-Jayne Blakemore. And what she and others in her field are finding is The adolescent brain really is different.,New brain imaging research and clever experiments are revealing how the cortex develops -- the executive part of the brain that handles things like planning, self-awareness, analysis of consequences and behavioral choices. It turns out that these regions develop more slowly during adolescence, and in fascinating ways that relate to risk-taking, peer pressure and learning.
Vicki, Stuart,The global food waste scandal,Author and Activist, TristramStuart.co.uk,,Western countries waste up to half of their food. This is an injustice Tristram Stuart has dedicated his career to fixing. In his newest book, Waste Uncovering the Global Food Scandal , Tristram shows how changing the systems that result in food waste could be one of the simplest ways to reduce pressure on the environment.,The winner of the international environmental award The Sophie Prize in 2011, Tristram is the founder of Feeding the 5000 , a consciousness raising campaign where 5000 members of the public are given a free lunch using only ingredients that otherwise would have been wasted. Held in Trafalgar Square in 2009 and 2011, the event has also been held internationally.
Beth, Noveck,Demand a more open-source government,Open-government expert,thegovlab.org/about/team/beth-simone-noveck/,,How can our data strengthen our democracies? In her work, Beth Noveck explores what opengov really means--not just freeing data from databases, but creating meaningful ways for citizens to collaborate with their governments.,As the US's first Deputy CTO, Beth Noveck founded the White House Open Government Initiative , which developed administration policy on transparency, participation, and collaboration. Among other projects, she designed and built Peer-to-Patent , the U.S. government’s first expert network. She's now working on the design for ORGPedia , a platform for mashing up and visualizing public and crowdsourced data about corporations. Her book The Networked State will appear in 2013.
Wayne, McGregor,A choreographer's creative process in real time,Dancer and Choreographer,www.randomdance.org/,,Wayne McGregor is a man in perpetual motion. When not incubating new approaches to choreography with his company, Random Dance , he creates works for ballet, theatre and opera companies worldwide--including the Royal Ballet in London, where he's choreographer in residence, and contemporary dance powerhouse Sadler's Wells . In ongoing collaborations with psychologists, neuroscientists and cognitive scientists, Random dancers are helping researchers measure and analyze how the brain works in the creative process. What?s emerged so far is that we can, and do, think with our bodies.,McGregor is no stranger to pop culture he's designed movement for Thom Yorke of Radiohead and for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire . This spring he collaborated with DJ Mark Ronson on Carbon Life , a piece for the Royal Ballet with vocals from Boy George. And he's creating a new dance piece for thousands of dancers in London?s Trafalgar Square on Saturday, July 14.
Susan, Solomon,The promise of research with stem cells,Stem cell research advocate, nyscf.org,,Susan Solomon’s health care advocacy stems from personal medical trials—namely, her son’s Type 1 diabetes and her mother’s fatal cancer. Following a successful career as a lawyer and business entrepreneur, Solomon, frustrated by the slow pace of medical research, was inspired to use those skills to follow another passion accelerating medical research with real-world results as a social entrepreneur. And through her own research and conversations with medical experts, she decided that stem cells (cells that have the ability to morph into any other kind of cell) had the greatest potential to impact peoples’ health.,In 2005, Solomon founded the New York Stem Cell Foundation , now one of the largest nonprofit research institutions and laboratories in this field in the world. The NYSCF Research Institute conducts all facets of stem cell research from growing the cells to drug discovery.
Leslie, T. Chang,The voices of China's workers,Journalist, leslietchang.com,,Leslie T. Chang's book Factory Girls From Village to City in a Changing China traces the lives of Chunming and Min, two young women working in Dongguan, a factory city in South China. Leaving their home villages far behind in pursuit of work, Chunming and Min are part of an estimated 10 million young migrants (estimated to be 70 percent women) who work in China's booming factories. These migrants live in a perpetual present, forging individual and nontraditional lives amid the breakneck pace of manufacturing.,As Chang gets to know these two women and others, she reveals the harsh realities of China's spectacular industrial growth, and also explores her family's own history of migration from mainland China.
Vikram, Patel,Mental health for all by involving all,Mental health care advocate,Sangath.com,,In towns and villages that have few clinics, doctors and nurses, one particular need often gets overlooked mental health. When there is no psychiatrist, how do people get care when they need it? Vikram Patel studies how to treat conditions like depression and schizophrenia in low-resource communities, and he's come up with a powerful model training the community to help.,Based in Goa for much of the year, Patel is part of a policy group that's developing India's first national mental health policy, he's the co-founder of Sangath , a local NGO dedicated to mental health and family wellbeing. In London, he co-directs the Centre for Global Mental Health at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine . And he led the efforts to set up the Movement for Global Mental Health, a network that supports mental health care as a basic human right.
Scott, Fraser,Why eyewitnesses get it wrong,Forensic psychologist, expert witness,https//www.scottfraser.co.uk/,,When it comes to witnesses in criminal trials, the accuracy of human memory can mean the difference between life and death. Scott Fraser is an expert witness who researches what’s real and what’s selective when it comes to human memory and crime. His areas of expertise include human night vision, neuropsychopharmacology, and the effect of stress and other factors on the human mind. He has testified in criminal and civil cases throughout the U.S. in state and federal courts.,In 2011 Fraser was involved in the retrial of a 1992 murder case in which Francisco Carrillo was found guilty and sentenced to two life sentences in prison. Fraser and the team that hired him staged a dramatic reenactment of the night of the murder in question and showed the testimonies that had put Carrillo in jail were unreliable. After 20 years in jail for a crime he didn't commit, Carrillo was freed.
Kent, Larson,Brilliant designs to fit more people in every city,Architect,www.dlrgroup.com/people/kent-larson/,,Kent Larson has been the director of the MIT House_n research consortium in the School of Architecture and Planning since 1998 and is also the current director of the MIT Media Lab's Changing Places group. Both projects are dedicated to developing technologies that solve contemporary issues in the home, the workplace, and the city. Larson practiced architecture in New York City for 15 years and wrote for several architectural publications and the New York Times. In 2000, his book, Louis I. Kahn Unbuilt Masterworks , was selected among the Ten Best Books in Architecture by the New York Times Review of Books. His current work has three focusses responsive urban housing, ubiquitous technologies, and living lab experiments to test his group's designs in practical environments.,
Jonathan, Trent,Energy from floating algae pods,Scientist and biofuel guru,www.nasa.gov/centers/ames/research/OMEGA/,,Jonathan Trent works at NASA’s nanotechnology department , where he builds microscopic devices out of proteins from extremophiles -- bacteria that live in the world’s harshest environments. It isn’t the logical place to start a biofuel project. But in 2008, after watching enzymes chomp through plant cells, Trent started thinking about biofuels. And, because he has a background in marine biology, he started thinking about algae and the oceans.,Thus was born OMEGA , or the Offshore Membrane Enclosure for Growing Algae. This technology aims at re-using the wastewater of coastal cities that is currently piped out and disposed into the seas. Fueled by the sun and carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, the algae eat the waste and produce oils that can be converted to fuel. Unlike growing corn for ethanol, OMEGA doesn’t threaten the world’s food supply.
Antony, Gormley,Sculpted space, within and without,Sculptor, AntonyGormley.com,,Antony Gormley's work places human forms into eye-opening new contexts, asking us to reconsider our own place in the world. In his 2007/2010 piece  Event Horizon , he placed several dozen life-size casts of his own body on urban rooftops, where they looked out over streets and squares. Does the viewer imagine herself watched by these looming figures--or imagine being one of them? More recently, his cast iron figures have been disseminated over 150 square km in the mountain pastures of the Austrian Alps, all standing at exactly 2039 meters of altitude. They are a mediation between the domestication of the valleys and the idea of the peak,” Gormley said of the project, codenamed  Horizon Field . Or take his work  One & Other , in which he curated members of the public to stand on an elevated plinth over Trafalgar Square in London for one hour at a time, creating a constantly changing celebration of humanity.,This spring, he collaborated with the choreographer Hofesh Shechter to create the powerful Survivor, a piece with hundreds of dancers moving their own forms through space and time.
Shyam, Sankar,The rise of human-computer cooperation,Data Intelligence Agent, shyamsankar.com,,Shyam Sankar is a Director at Palantir Technologies , a secretive Silicon Valley company where he oversees deployments of the company's core technology, which helps law enforcement teams and corporations analyze giant, unrelated databases for clues to potential ... anything. Palantir technologies has been used to find missing children, to detect banking fraud, and to uncover the Shadow Network, a cyber-spy ring that stooped so low as to hack the Dalai Lama's email.,As part of his work, Sankar thinks deeply about the place where human and machine intelligence meet. While artificial intelligence (AI) is the dominant paradigm, he is an advocate of JCR Licklider's intelligence augmentation (IA) approach, where algorithms and brains work together to solve problems.
Robert, Neuwirth,The power of the informal economy,Author,squattercity.com,,In his 2012 book Stealth of Nations , Robert Neuwirth challenges conventional thinking by examining the world's informal economy close up. To do so, he spent four years living and working with street vendors and gray marketers, to capture its scope, its vigor--and its lessons. He calls it “System D” and argues that it is not a hidden economy, but a very visible, growing, effective one, fostering entrepreneurship and representing 1.8 billion jobs worldwide.,Before this, for his previous book Shadow Cities (also a TEDTalk ), he spent two years exploring one of the most profound trends of our time the mass migration of the world's population into urban shantytowns. A billion people live as squatters. Life in a favela, slum, shantytown is hard no water, no transport, no sewage. But in the squatter cities of Rio, Nairobi, Istanbul and Mumbai, Neuwirth discovered restaurants, markets, clinics and effective forms of self-organization.
Rob, Legato,The art of creating awe,Visual Effects Guru,www.imdb.com/name/nm0499215/,,Did we really see what we thought we saw? Rob Legato creates visual illusions for movies -- thinking deeply both about vfx's expanding tech power and the truly new creative processes that can result. Legato won his first Oscar in 1998 for his work on James Cameron's Titanic , after several years in television supervising effects on two Star Trek series. His 2012 Oscar win for Hugo , the 3D film about a boy who lives alone in a Paris train station, underscores his fascinating partnership with Martin Scorsese -- doing digital effects on documentaries and new classics like The Departed .,He's worked with the big effects houses like Sony Imageworks and Digital Domain, but is now fascinated with the nimble new workflows made possible with digital tools. He designed the virtual cinematography pipeline that let James Cameron shoot Avatar like a feature film, not a software project. We know that fx can create new worlds -- but how can these tools unlock new creativity?
Timothy, Prestero,Design for people, not awards,Designer,www.designthatmatters.org/,,Timothy Prestero is the founder and CEO of Design that Matters, a nonprofit that collaborates with social entrepreneurs and volunteers to design products for the poor in developing countries. A former Peace Corps volunteer and MIT graduate, Tim has worked in West Africa, Latin America and Asia. He is a Martin Fellow at the MIT Laboratory for Energy and the Environment, a Draper Richards Kaplan Fellow, and was named an Ashoka Affiliate in 2004. His awards include the 2007 Social Venture Network Innovation Award, and the 2009 World Technology Award. This year, Design That Matters was named the winner of the National Design Award in Corporate and Institutional Achievement.,Tim and his team made a splash when they created the NeoNurture Infant Incubator, named one of TIME Magazine's 50 Best Inventions of 2010. However, the product wasn't a hit with manufacturers or with hospitals in developing countries and forever remained a prototype. Design That Matters learned an important lesson from the experience -- that good design must keep in mind who will procure equipment, who will be using it, as well as the myriad ways it could be used incorrectly. As Timothy says, There's no such thing as a dumb user, there are only dumb products.
Jon, Ronson,Strange answers to the psychopath test,Writer and filmmaker, JonRonson.com,,In his latest book, The Psychopath Test , Jon Ronson explores the unnerving world of psychopaths -- a group that includes both incarcerated killers and, one of his subjects insists, plenty of CEOs. In his books, films and articles, Ronson explores madness and obsession of all kinds, from the US military's experiments in psychic warfare to the obscene and hate-filled yet Christian rap of the Insane Clown Posse. He wrote a column for the Guardian and hosted an essay program on Radio 4, and contributes to This American Life .,“Well, I think I have a precarious sense of self anyway, but I'm also sane enough to notice when it's slipping.” — Jon Ronson
Caitria, + Morgan O'Neill,How to step up in the face of disaster,Disaster relief expert, Recovers.org,,Caitria O'Neill, then 20, had just graduated from college in the summer of 2011, and was preparing to begin a Master's program in Moscow. But on June 1, an EF3 tornado hit her hometown of Monson, Massachusetts. Caitria, along with her older sister Morgan, quickly took action. Working as lead volunteer coordinators, the two created a flexible framework for an unofficial community relief effort. By leveraging the short term spike in national interest, along with social media and database organization, Monson recorded more volunteer hours than any surrounding town -- hundreds more hours, in fact.,After this intense experience, Catria and Morgan have translated their system into organizing software for local coordinators, through the website Recovers.org . This “recovery in a box” can be rolled out in minutes, helping local relief organizers turn interest into action. Caitria serves as Chief Executive Officer.
Ivan, Krastev,Can democracy exist without trust?,Public intellectual,www.cls-sofia.org › Projects › Democracy › The New Populism,,Political scientist Ivan Krastev is watching the Euro crisis closely, fascinated by what it reveals about Europe's place in history What does it mean for the democratic model? Will a fragmented Europe return to nationalist identity politics?,In his latest work, Krastev places recent events on a continuum of five revolutions over the past decades
Mark, Forsyth,What's a snollygoster? A short lesson in political speak,Writer,blog.inkyfool.com/,,Mark Forsyth is a passionate, self-described pedant when it comes to the English language -- but his detailed knowledge of history has given him a common-sense approach to its proper use. He is an author, blogger, journalist, proofreader and ghostwriter. He can be found dispelling the grammar myths we were all taught in his popular blog, the Inky Fool . His book The Etymologicon takes a circular stroll through the hidden connections of the English language by history of one word or phrase with each chapter.,
Lisa, Kristine,Photos that bear witness to modern slavery,Photographer,www.lisakristine.com/,,Lisa Kristine took an early interest in anthropology and 19th-century photographic printing techniques -- passions that have since predominated her work. In 1999, and again in 2000, she presented her photography at the State of the World Forum. In 2003, she published her first book, A Human Thread , capturing and intimate and honest portrait of humanity. In 2007, her second book, This Moment , won the bronze metal at the Independent Publisher Book Awards. She also produced two documentary films to accompany each book -- exposing her techniques and the stories behind her photographs. In 2010, Kristine travelled the world in collaboration with Free the Slaves to document the harrowing lives of the enslaved. Slavery was published in 2010.,“Lisa Kristine’s sensitive and beautiful portrayal of isolated and distant peoples helps us to better appreciate the diversity of the world. She captures the sheer beauty of the differences in people and places and allows us to comprehend the shared nature of the human condition its hope, its joy and its complexity.” — John C. Sweeney, Director of the United Nations
Kirby, Ferguson,Embrace the remix,Filmmaker and Remixer, Everythingisaremix.info,,What's a remix? In Kirby Ferguson's view, any piece of art that contains a recognizable reference to another work--a quote from a lyric, a borrowed riff, a filmic homage. Which makes almost everything a remix, from a Led Zeppelin song to a classic film from George Lucas. His deeply researched and insanely fun four-part web series,  Everything Is a Remix , dives into the question Is remixing a form of creativity, a production of the new on the shoulders of what precedes it, or is it just copying? He comes out firmly on the side of creativity, calling for protections for people who, with good intentions, weave together bits of existing culture into something fresh and relevant.,His next web series is called  This Is Not a Conspiracy Theory , an attempt to explore how US politics came to be the way they are.
Pam, Warhurst,How we can eat our landscapes,Cofounder, Incredible Edible,www.incredible-edible-todmorden.co.uk/c...,,Pam Warhurst is the Chair of the Board of the Forestry Commission, which advises on and implements forestry policy in Great Britain. She also cofounded Incredible Edible Todmorden, a local food partnership that encourages community engagement through local growing. Incredible Edible started small, with the planting of a few community herb gardens in Todmorden, and today has spin-offs in the U.S. and Japan. The community has started projects like Every Egg Matters, which educates people on keeping chickens and encourages them to sell eggs to neighbors, and uses a 'Chicken Map' to connect consumers and farmers. Incredible Edible Todmorden empowers ordinary people to take control of their communities through active civic engagement.,“I wondered if it was possible to take a town like Todmorden and focus on local food to re-engage people with the planet we live on, create the sort of shifts in behaviour we need to live within the resources we have, stop us thinking like disempowered victims and to start taking responsibility for our own futures.” — Pam Warhurst
Max, Little,A test for Parkinson's with a phone call,Applied mathematician,MaxLittle.net,,Max Little is an applied mathematician whose goal is to see connections between subjects, not boundaries … to see how things are related, not how they are different. He has a background in applied mathematics, statistics, signal processing and computational engineering, and his work has been applied across disciplines like biomedicine, extreme rainfall analysis and forecasting, biophysical signal processing, and hydrogeomorphology and open channel flow measurement. Little is best known for his work on the Parkinson's Voice Initiative, in which he and his team developed a cheap and simple tool that uses precise voice analysis software to detect Parkinson's with 99 percent accuracy. Little is a TEDGlobal 2012 Fellow and a Wellcome Trust-MIT Postdoctoral Research Fellow.,
Margaret, Heffernan,Dare to disagree,Management thinker,MHeffernan.com,,How do organizations think? In her book Willful Blindness , Margaret Heffernan examines why businesses and the people who run them often ignore the obvious -- with consequences as dire as the global financial crisis and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.,Heffernan began her career in television production, building a track record at the BBC before going on to run the film and television producer trade association IPPA. In the US, Heffernan became a serial entrepreneur and CEO in the wild early days of web business. She now blogs for the Huffington Post and BNET.com . Her latest book, Beyond Measure , a TED Books original, explores the small steps companies can make that lead to big changes in their culture.
Scilla, Elworthy,Fighting with nonviolence,Peace builder,www.scillaelworthy.com/,,When Scilla Elworthy was 13, she sat in front of her television set watching as Soviet tanks rolled into Budapest. Immediately she started packing her bags. What are you doing? her mother said. I'm going to Budapest, she said. They're doing something awful and I have to go. Years later, Elworthy is a three-time Nobel Peace Prize nominee and a recipient of the Niwano Peace Prize. In 2002 Elworthy founded Peace Direct, which supports local action against conflict, and in 1982 founded Oxford Research Group, a think-tank devoted to developing effective dialogue between nuclear weapons policy-makers and their critics. Beginning in 2005 she helped set up The Elders initiative as an adviser to Sir Richard Branson, Peter Gabriel and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.,
Hannah, Fry,Is life really that complex?,Complexity theorist,www.hannahfry.co.uk/,,Hannah Fry completed her PhD in fluid dynamics in early 2011 with an emphasis on how liquid droplets move. Then, after working as an aerodynamicist in the motorsport industry, she began work on an interdisciplinary project in complexity sciences at University College London. Hannah’s current research focusses on discovering new connections between mathematically described systems and human interaction at the largest scale.,
Mark, Applebaum,The mad scientist of music,Composer,www.markapplebaum.com/,,Don’t ask Mark Applebaum the question, “Is this music?” A composer and performer, he takes great joy in challenging the conventional boundaries of musical ontology. His solo, chamber, choral, orchestral, operatic and electroacoustic work has been performed throughout the world. He is also an accomplished jazz pianist and the founding director of the Stanford Improvisation Collective .,An associate professor of composition at Stanford University , Applebaum received the Walter J. Gores Award for excellence in teaching in 2003. He was also recently named the Hazy Family University Fellow in Undergraduate Education and the Leland & Edith Smith Faculty Scholar.
Becci, Manson,(Re)touching lives through photos,Photo Retoucher, rebeccamanson.com,,Becci Manson flew to T?hoku, Japan after the 2011 disaster, determined to help with cleanup and rebuilding.,As she writes During those 3 weeks of digging ditches and gutting homes I discovered vast amounts of photos that had been found and handed into evacuation centers. The photos were dirty, wet and homeless. As I spent my first day hand-cleaning them, I couldnt help but think how easy it would be for me, my colleagues and my friends to fix some of them. So we did.
Daphne, Koller,What we're learning from online education,Educator, Coursera.org,,A 3rd generation Ph.D who is passionate about education, Stanford professor Daphne Koller is excited to be making the college experience available to anyone through her startup, Coursera . With classes from 85 top colleges, Coursera is an innovative model for online learning. While top schools have been putting lectures online for years, Coursera's platform supports the other vital aspect of the classroom tests and assignments that reinforce learning.,At the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory , computer scientist Daphne Koller studies how to model large, complicated decisions with lots of uncertainty. (Her research group is called DAGS , which stands for Daphne's Approximate Group of Students.) In 2004, she won a MacArthur Fellowship for her work, which involves, among other things, using Bayesian networks and other techniques to explore biomedical and genetic data sets.
Stephen, Ritz,A teacher growing green in the South Bronx,Teacher,stephenritz.com,,Stephen Ritz is a South Bronx teacher/administrator who believes that students shouldn't have to leave their community to live, learn and earn in a better one. Moving generations of students into spheres of personal and academic successes they have never imagined while reclaiming and rebuilding the Bronx, Stephen’s extended student and community family have grown over 25,000 pounds of vegetables in the Bronx while generating extraordinary academic performance.,His Bronx classroom features the first indoor edible wall in NYC DOE which routinely generates enough produce to feed 450 students healthy meals and trains the youngest nationally certified workforce in America. His students, traveling from Boston to Rockefeller Center to the Hamptons, earn living wage en route to graduation.
Michael, Anti,Behind the Great Firewall of China,Blogger,michaelanti.com/,,One morning in 2011, Michael Anti woke up to find himself a nonperson His Facebook profile, with 1,000+ contacts, had been suspended. Anti, whose given name is Zhao Jing, ran up against Facebook's real-name policy--but he points out that for Chinese bloggers and information activists, the pseudonym is an important protection for the free exchange of information.,Facebook itself is blocked in China (along with Twitter and YouTube), but the country boasts some 500 million netizens--including 200 million microbloggers on sites like Sina Weibo, a freewheeling though monitored platform for text and photo updates that offers, perhaps for the first time, a space for public debate in China. It's not a western-style space, Anti clarifies, but for China it is revolutionary It's the first national public sphere. Microblogs' role became clear in the wake of the high-speed train crash in Wenzhou in 2011, when Weibo became a locus of activism and complaint--and a backchannel that refuted official reports and has continued to play a key role in more recent events.
Giles, Duley,When a reporter becomes the story,Photojournalist, GilesDuley.com,,Giles was a photographer who, some years ago, tired of celebrity photoshoots and the attendant egos and tantrums that often accompanied them. He flung his camera on the photoshoot bed and it bounced out the window into the streets of SoHo, London. At that point he decided to change course and dedicated himself to using his camera to tell unheard stories of those caught in conflict and economic hardship around the world. His work took him to Sudan, Angola, Ukraine and Bangladesh, among other places. Early in 2011, on assignment in Afghanistan, Duley stepped on a landmine. Despite the fact that the horrific accident left Duley a triple amputee, he continues to dedicate his life to telling stories through photography.,“Do you ever have one of those mornings, when you just can't be bothered to put your legs on? ” — @gilesduley
Noah, Wilson-Rich,Every city needs healthy honey bees,Beekeeper, bestbees.com,,Noah Wilson-Rich founded Best Bees Company in his Boston apartment while getting his Ph.D. at Tufts University. Best Bees supplies gardeners and any other interested parties in the Boston area with beehives, as well as the resources, materials and appropriate consultation for their upkeep. This service is a nontraditional means of raising money for research to improve honey bee health. Profits from installing and managing these honey beehives goes to fund Wilson-Rich's research into bee diseases.,“... Encourage yourself to recognize honey bees as so much more than icky bugs, but vitally important creatures who provide us with food and flowers. Value honey bees.” — Noah Wilson-Rich
Michael, Hansmeyer,Building unimaginable shapes,Computational architect, Michael-Hansmeyer.com,,Classical architecture is defined by orders -- ways to connect a column to a building, to articulate the joining of materials and structural forces. Colloquially, these orders are based on elemental forms the tree trunk, the plank, the scroll, the leaf. Michael Hansmeyer is adding a new elemental form the subdivision algorithm. He turns his math and programming skills to making ornate, organic, hyperdetailed columns generated from lines of code and then comped up in cross-sections of cardboard, almost as if they're being 3D printed.,His recent work with cupolas and domes is even more mesmerizing, like looking deep inside an organic form of near-unbearable complexity. See images at digital-grotesque.com >>
Ramesh, Raskar,Imaging at a trillion frames per second,Femto-photographer,https//www.media.mit.edu/people/raskar,,In 1964 MIT professor Harold Edgerton, pioneer of stop-action photography, famously took a photo of a bullet piercing an apple using exposures as short as a few nanoseconds. Inspired by his work, Ramesh Raskar and his team set out to create a camera that could capture not just a bullet (traveling at 850 meters per second) but light itself (nearly 300 million meters per second).,Stop a moment to take that in photographing light as it moves. For that, they built a camera and software that can visualize pictures as if they are recorded at 1 trillion frames per second. The same photon-imaging technology can also be used to create a camera that can peer around corners , by exploiting specific properties of the photons when they bounce off surfaces and objects.
Tracy, Chevalier,Finding the story inside the painting,Author,www.tchevalier.com/,,Tracy Chevalier pulls stories from paintings and historical episodes, finding the human thread behind opaque images. Her best-known book is Girl With a Pearl Earring, inspired by a Vermeer painting, other books include The Lady and the Unicorn and Burning Bright , about two children who become neighbours of William Blake. Her upcoming book, The Last Runaway, tells a story from the Underground Railroad.,For the anthology Imagined Lives , she wrote about an unknown portrait sitter whom she calls Rosy. Hear the podcast of her story. and find more stories from the National Portrait Gallery .
Malte, Spitz,Your phone company is watching,Politician and Data Activist,malte-spitz.de/,,German Green politician Malte Spitz went to court to obtain the information that his cell phone operator, Deutsche Telekom, gathered (and kept) about his activity. The results astonished him. Over the course of six months, they had tracked his geographical location and what he was doing with his phone more than 35,000 times. Working with the German newspaper Die Zeit , an infographic was created that shows Spitz's activity across an interactive timeline, combined DT's geolocation data with information relating to his life as a politician, such as Twitter feeds, blog entries and website. By pushing the play button, viewers can set off on a detail-rich trip through six months of his life. And more, because he keeps asking the telecom company for his most recent data.,Spitz, a member of the Executive Committee of the German Green Party, is responsible for media and new-media policies, civil liberties and privacy issues.
James, Stavridis,A Navy Admiral's thoughts on global security,Navy Admiral, eucom.mil,,In the world of security, says James Stavridis, we are generally focused on risk. But I think we should spend a bit of our most precious resource — time — on thinking about and developing opportunities. The first US Navy officer to hold the positions of Commander of the US European Command (USEUCOM) and of NATO's Supreme Allied Commander Europe ( SACEUR ), Stavridis has been advocating the opportunities perspective for a long time. He sees dialogue and collaboration — between nations, and between public and private sectors — as key to the future of security. As a Navy officer, he thinks deeply about protecting the value of our global commons. And he's a rare high-ranking military officer who tweets and blogs.,He has led the recent military effort in Lybia, among other NATO engagements. Previously Stavridis commanded US Southern Command in Miami, focused on Latin America and the Caribbean.
Vinay, Venkatraman,Technology crafts for the digitally underserved,Designer,www.vinayvenkatraman,,Designer Vinay Venkatraman is committed to creating a digitally inclusive world. A founding partner at the Copenhagen Institute of Interaction Design , Vinay aims to design for the populations of the world who don't have access to the latest tech gadget. He calls his outlook Frugal Digital.,Vinay’s background is in industrial design, and he began his career fashioning bicycles and kitchen appliances. He was soon enticed by filmmaking and worked as visual effects designer for a leading post production house, Prime Focus Ltd, on various advertisements and movies. He later shifted his focus to software products, working as a product designer at Microsoft for emerging technologies.
John, Graham-Cumming,The greatest machine that never was,Computer programmer,jgc.org,,John Graham-Cumming received his Ph.D. in computer security from Oxford University. A peripatetic programmer, he has worked in Silicon Valley, New York, the UK, Germany and France. In 2004, his open source POPFile program won a Jolt Productivity Award. He has authored two books The Geek Atlas, a travel companion for math and science history enthusiasts, and GNU Make Unleashed, a guide for programmers. In 2009, he spearheaded a successful petition to the British Government demanding an apology for its persecution of Alan Turing for his homosexuality. His personal blog was rated among the top 30 science blogs by The Times in February 2010. And in October, 2010, he founded an organization dedicated to build Charles Babbage's famous analytical engine.,
Neil ,Harbisson,I listen to color,Sonochromatic Cyborg Artist, Harbisson.com,,Born with the inability to see color, Neil Harbisson wears a prosthetic device — he calls it an eyeborg — that allows him to hear the spectrum, even those colors beyond the range of human sight. His unique experience of color informs his artwork — which, until he met cyberneticist Adam Montandon at a college lecture, was strictly black-and-white. By working with Montandon, and later with Peter Kese, Harbisson helped design a lightweight eyepiece that he wears on his forehead that transposes the light frequencies of color hues into sound frequencies.,Harbisson's artwork blurs the boundaries between sight and sound. In his Sound Portraits series, he listens to the colors of faces to create a microtonal chord. In the City Colours project, he expresses the capital cities of Europe in two colors (Monaco is azure and salmon pink, Bratislava yellow and turquoise).
Matt, Mills,Image recognition that triggers augmented reality,Technologist, aurasma.com,,Augmented reality is the process of adding layers of information onto the world we see, viewable only through technology. In this space, the Aurasma Lite app uses a smartphone and camera to lay auras--3D images, games, animations--onto real-world places. Point your phone at a movie poster on the street and launch a trailer, point at a building to pull up an interactive map... or create your own aura and upload it to the virtual space for anyone to see. Matt Mills and Tamara Roukaerts both joined Aurasma when it launched in June 2011.,They say This is the next step on from simply browsing the internet because now the digital content we discover, create and share can be woven seamlessly in to the world around us.
Baba, Shiv,Sometimes it's good to give up the driver's seat,Neuroeconomist,https//www.gsb.stanford.edu/.../ba...,,Does a bottle of wine’s price tag price affect the pleasure one experiences in buying and drinking it? Does getting immediate feedback on a choice lead a person to doubt their decision? Does being denied something make people pursue it more hotly while simultaneously liking it less? Over his academic career, Baba Shiv has researched these questions in neuroeconomics, winning awards like the William O’Dell prize for an article that made a significant, long-term contribution to marketing theory and practice. Two of Professor Shiv's publications have received the Citation of Excellence from Emerald Management Reviews, and his research has been been featured on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and on NPR's Radiolab, as well as in the Financial Times, The New York Times, and The Wall Street Journal.,A professor at Stanford's Graduate School of Busines , Shiv is the director of the Strategic Marketing Management Executive Program and teaches several popular MBA courses including “The Frinky Science of the Mind” and “Entrepreneurial Ventures in Luxury Markets.” He served as the editor of the Journal of Consumer Research and is also on the editorial boards of the Journal of Consumer Psychology , Journal of Retailing , Journal of Marketing and the Journal of Marketing Research .
Jamie, Drummond,Let's crowdsource the world's goals,Anti-poverty activist, ONE.org,,ONE (whose co-founders include rock star Bono) advocates for aid, trade, debt cancellation, investment and governance reform to help the citizens of emerging countries drive and determine their own destiny. Right now, the group's focus is the UN's Millennium Development Goals, eight benchmarks for health, justice and well-being announced in 2000 and targeted to be achieved in 2015. ONE is working to accelerate attention on the MDGs in the last four years of the challenge.,
Mina, Bissell,Experiments that point to a new understanding of cancer,Cancer Researcher,www2.lbl.gov/.../BissellLab/mai,,Mina Bissell's groundbreaking research has proven that cancer is not only caused by cancer cells. It is caused by an interaction between cancer cells and the surrounding cellular micro-environment. In healthy bodies, normal tissue homeostasis and architecture inhibit the progression of cancers. But changes in the microenvironment--following an injury or a wound for instance--can shift the balance. This explains why many people harbor potentially malignant tumors in their bodies without knowing it and never develop cancer, and why tumors often develop when tissue is damaged or when the immune system is suppressed.,The converse can also be true. In a landmark 1997 experiment, mutated mammary cells, when dosed with an antibody and placed into a normal cellular micro-environment, behaved normally. This powerful insight from Bissell's lab may lead to new ways of treating existing and preventing potential cancers.
Gabriel, Barcia-Colombo,Capturing memories in video art,Video sculptor, gabebc.com,,Gabe Barcia-Colombo is an American artist who creates installation pieces that both delight and point to the strangeness of our modern, digital world. His latest work is a DNA Vending Machine, which dispenses vials of DNA extracted from friends at dinner parties. He's also created video installations of miniature people encased inside ordinary objects like suitcases, blenders and more. His work comments on the act of leaving one's imprint for the next generation. Call it artwork with consequences.,As he explains it While formally implemented by natural history museums and collections (which find their roots in Renaissance-era 'cabinets of curiosity'), this process has grown more pointed and pervasive in the modern-day obsession with personal digital archiving and the corresponding growth of social media culture. My video sculptures play upon this exigency in our culture to chronicle, preserve and wax nostalgic, an idea which I render visually by 'collecting' human beings (alongside cultural archetypes) as scientific specimens. I repurpose everyday objects like blenders, suitcases and cans of Spam into venues for projecting and inserting videos of people.
Todd, Humphreys,How to fool a GPS,Assistant Professor,https//www.ae.utexas.edu/.../humphreys,,Todd Humphreys is director of the University of Texas at Austin's Radionavigation Laboratory -- where he works as an assistant professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics. His research into orbital mechanics has made him one of the world's leading experts on GPS technology and the security concerns that arise from its ubiquitous use. In 2008 he co-founded Coherent Navigation, a startup dedicated to creating more secure GPS systems.,
Jared, Ficklin,New ways to see music (with color! and fire!),Visualizer,jaredficklin.com/,,Jared Ficklin is a Senior Principal Design Technologist at frog, where he builds user experiences for clients, playing with interactions including touch and multi-touch, and applying physics to enhance the user experience. A passion for music and making things introduced him to the hobby of sound visualization, which has led him on occasion to play with fire. (As Flash on the Beach puts it, Jared Ficklin’s sonic experiments stood out for their individuality, drama and casual disregard for health and safety.) Every March in Austin, Texas, Ficklin organizes the frog party, a collective social experiment for a few thousand people attending SXSW Interactive. It's a form of playful R&D for social technology. And he has spent 10 years helping fund, design and build quality free public skateparks for Austin as part of the Austin Public Skatepark Action Committee.,“I am intrigued by the idea of eliminating time and allowing listeners to take in an entire song as a single visual impression. The result reveals an unseen beauty.” — Jared Ficklin
Marc, Goodman,A vision of crimes in the future,Global Security Futurist, MarcGoodman.net,,Marc Goodman imagines the future crime and terrorism challenges we will all face as a result of advancing technologies. He thinks deeply about the disruptive security implications of robotics, artificial intelligence, social data, virtual reality and synthetic biology. Technology, he says, is affording exponentially growing power to non-state actors and rogue players, with significant consequences for our common global security. How to respond to these threats? The crime-fighting solution might just lie in crowdsourcing. Goodman heads the Future Crimes Institute , a think tank and clearinghouse that researches and advises on the security and risk implications of emerging technologies. He also serves as the Global Security Advisor and Chair for Policy and Law at Singularity University .,“Moore’s Law moves fast, Goodman points out, while statute progresses like molasses. In between lies a huge potential for economic growth and public good — or stagnation, discord, and collapse. ” — Ted Greenwald on Forbes.comChris, Gerdes,The future race car — 150mph, and no driver,Mechanical engineer,soe.stanford.edu/research/gerdes.htm,,Imagine a car that can drive itself -- that with the push of a button can get you home safely when you’re too tired to drive or have had a night of one too many drinks. Dr. Chris Gerdes , the Director of the Center for Automotive Research at Stanford (conveniently acronymed CARS), and his team are developing a robotic race car, capable of driving at outrageous speeds while avoiding every possible accident. Gerdes’ research focuses on the development of driver assistance systems for collision avoidance, as well as on new combustion processes for engines.,Prior to teaching at Stanford, Gerdes was the project leader for vehicle dynamics at the Vehicle Systems Technology Center of Daimler-Benz Research and Technology North America. His work at Daimler focused on safety analysis.
Jonathan, Eisen,Meet your microbes,Biologist,https//phylogenomics.wordpress.com/,,Research in Jonathan Eisen's lab focuses on the “phylogenomics of novelty” in microbes. Among their major research themes are • the genomic basis for the origin and evolution of new functions • the ecology and evolution of microbial communities • the co-evolution of microbes and their carrying vessels (i.e., hosts) • variation in “evolvability” • the development of phylogeny driven computational tools to analyze genomic and metagenomic sequence data. Eisen is also a strong proponent of the Open Access movement in scientific publishing and is Academic Editor in Chief of PLoS Biology . Dr. Eisen is also an active and award-winning science blogger on The Tree of Life . For recent news see @phylogenomics .,
Jane, McGonigal,The game that can give you 10 extra years of life,Game Designer, janemcgonigal.com,,Jane McGonigal asks Why doesn't the real world work more like an online game? In the best-designed games, our human experience is optimized We have important work to do, we're surrounded by potential collaborators, and we learn quickly and in a low-risk environment. In her work as a game designer, she creates games that use mobile and digital technologies to turn everyday spaces into playing fields, and everyday people into teammates. Her game-world insights can explain--and improve--the way we learn, work, solve problems, and lead our real lives. She served as the director of game R&D at the Institute for the Future , and she is the founder of Gameful , which she describes as a secret headquarters for worldchanging game developers.,Several years ago she suffered a serious concussion, and she created a multiplayer game to get through it, opening it up to anyone to play. In “ Superbetter ,” players set a goal (health or wellness) and invite others to play with them--and to keep them on track. While most games, and most videogames, have traditionally been about winning, we are now seeing increasing collaboration and games played together to solve problems.
Usman, Riaz + Preston Reed,A young guitarist meets his hero,Revolutionary Guitarist, PrestonReed.com,,Most guitarists the world over play their instruments in essentially the same way the left hand holds the neck and applies pressure to each string to change notes, while the right hand plays the melody. Not so with Preston Reed.,In the 1980s, Reed began playing his instrument in new ways, sometimes twisting his left hand to pick out a melody while the right hand strummed accompaniment or tapping the guitar’s body like a drum. A new playing style was born, with deep chords, complex percussion, and weightless melodies. And he's inspired new generations of guitarists to further innovate on the genre he pioneered.
Cesar, Harada,A novel idea for cleaning up oil spills,Inventor, environmentalist, cesarharada.com,,Cesar Harada believes that ocean currents, the wind and other naturally occuring phenomenon can provide unique inspiration and novel solutions to mankind’s worst disasters, like oil spills and radioactive leaks. A French-Japanese inventor and TED senior fellow , he is the creator of Protei , a revolutionary sailing technology -- featuring a front rudder, flexible hull and open-soure hardware -- that allows for efficient clean up of both oil and plastics from the sea. Currently based in London, Harada recently traveled to Japan and is designing Protei to measure radioactivity along the country's coast.,The general coordinator of the future International Ocean Station, Harada teaches at Goldsmiths University London. A former project leader at MIT, he graduated form the Royal College of Arts Design Interactions in London and worked at the Southampton University Hydrodynamics laboratory on wave energy. Harada has also studied animantion, and his films and installations have been seen at festivals and events across the world, from the United States to Japan.
Raghava, KK,What's your 200-year plan?,Artist,raghavakk.com,,Raghava KK began his career in art as a newspaper cartoonist, and the cartoonist’s bold line -- and dead-on eye for truth -- still powers his art. His work spans painting, sculpture, installation, film and iPad art, always linked by his challenging opinions on identity, conformity, gender, celebrity, ceremony. (He even views his lavish Indian wedding as a piece of performance art.),His early work as a painter made a complete break with his cartoon career -- he painted watercolors on canvas using only his hands and feet. Since then, his work has grown to knit together aesthetics from both worlds, as collage and complication play against flat color and precise lines. He shows in galleries and performance spaces around the world and often collaborates with other artists, most recently with musicians Paul Simon and Erykah Badu. In 2011, he launched his children's iPad book, Pop-it , shaking up the concept of an ideal family. He is currently working on a project that promises to shake up everything! From news to education.
Alanna, Shaikh,How I'm preparing to get Alzheimer's,Global health and development specialist, alannashaikh.com,,TED Fellow Alanna Shaikh is a global health and development specilist with a vendetta against jargon. On her blog, Blood and Milk , she aims to make global development issues both accessible and understandable. In her TED Book, What's Killing Us , she explains the biggest challenges in global wellness -- from HIV/AIDS to the diminishing effectiveness of antibiotics -- in a way that anyone can understand. Earlier this year, she co-founded AidSource , a social network for aid workers. She is also the co-founder of the group SMART Aid , which educates donors and start-up projects about international aid.,Alanna Shaikh is especially interested in Alzheimer's, as she has watched her father deteriorate from the disease over the past 12 years. But she says the experience has not sent her into denial—she plans to be prepared for the genetically transmitted disease, should it ever arrive.
Boaz, Almog,The levitating superconductor,Quantum Researcher,quantumlevitation.com/,,In October 2011, Boaz Almog demonstrated how a superconducting disk can be trapped in a surrounding magnetic field to levitate above it, a phenomenon called “quantum levitation.” This demonstration, seemingly taken from a sci-fi movie, is the result of many years of R&D on high-quality superconductors. By using exceptional superconductors cooled in liquid nitrogen, Almog and his colleague Mishael Azoulay at the superconductivity group at Tel Aviv University (lead by Prof. Guy Deutscher) were able to demonstrate a quantum effect that, although well known to physicists worldwide, had never been seen and demonstrated in such a compelling way.,Experiment credits
Elyn, Saks,A tale of mental illness — from the inside,Mental health law scholar,weblaw.usc.edu/faculty/contactinfo.cfm?...,,As a law scholar and writer, Elyn Saks speaks for the rights of mentally ill people. It's a gray area Too often, society's first impulse is to make decisions on their behalf. But it's a slippery slope from in loco parentis to a denial of basic human rights. Saks has brilliantly argued for more autonomy -- and in many cases for a restoration of basic human dignity.,In 2007, deep into her career, she dropped a bombshell -- her autobiography, The Center Cannot Hold . In it, she reveals the depth of her own schizophrenia, now controlled by drugs and therapy. Clear-eyed and honest about her own condition, the book lent her new ammunition in the quest to protect the rights and dignity of the mentally ill.
Don, Tapscott,Four principles for the open world,Digital strategist, dontapscott.com,,Don Tapscott takes a farseeing look at our digital, connected, hypercollaborative world. He's the CEO of Tapscott group and is the Founder and Chairman of Global Solution Networks .,He is an adjunct professor at Rotman School of Management, the Inaugural Fellow at the Martin Prosperity Institute , and the Chancellor of Trent University.
Massimo, Banzi,How Arduino is open-sourcing imagination,Physical Computing Guru, MassimoBanzi.com,,Computer-based interactivity used to be beyond the reach of most artists, designers, and other electronics amateurs who wanted to make their work respond to light, sound and other stimulus by moving, beeping, tweeting. Then, in 2005, Italian engineer Massimo Banzi and his team created the Arduino microcontroller, a small, cheap programmable computer, bringing interactive technology to the masses.,With a variety of sensors, the Arduino is versatile and easy to use. Since its inception, the device has popped up in projects as varied as an exhibit on brains at the American Museum of Natural History in New York, to a DIY kit that sends a Tweet when your houseplant needs water.
Rives,Rives,Reinventing the encyclopedia game,Performance poet, multimedia artist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rives,,Part poet, part storyteller, part philosopher, Rives is the co-host of TEDActive as well as a frequent TED speaker. On stage, his poems burst in many directions, exposing multiple layers and unexpected treats childhood memories, grown-up humor, notions of love and lust, of what is lost forever and of what's still out there waiting to unfold. Chimborazo .,A regular on HBO's Def Poetry Jam , Rives also starred alongside model Bar Refaeli in the 2008 Bravo special Ironic Iconic America , touring the United States on a roller coaster ride through the eye-popping panorama of American pop culture. Flat pages can't contain his storytelling, even when paper is his medium. The pop-up books he creates for children unfold with surprise The Christmas Pop-Up Present expands to reveal moving parts, hidden areas and miniature booklets inside.
E.O.,E.O. Wilson,Advice to young scientists,Biologist,eowilsonfoundation.org/,,One of the world's most distinguished scientists, E.O. Wilson is a professor and honorary curator in entomology at Harvard. In 1975, he published Sociobiology The New Synthesis, a work that described social behavior, from ants to humans .,Drawing from his deep knowledge of the Earth's little creatures and his sense that their contribution to the planet's ecology is underappreciated, he produced what may be his most important book, The Diversity of Life . In it he describes how an intricately interconnected natural system is threatened by man's encroachment , in a crisis he calls the sixth extinction (the fifth one wiped out the dinosaurs).
Nirmalya,Nirmalya Kumar,India's invisible innovation,Professor,www.london.edu/faculty-and.../kumar-n,,Nirmalya Kumar has taught at Harvard Business School, IMD-International Institute for Management Development in Switzerland, and the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He is currently a Professor of Marketing and Co-Director of Aditya Birla India Centre at London Business School. Kumar has served as a consultant to over 50 Fortune 500 Companies, worked on the board of five Indian firms, and has published six books -- including, most recently, India Inside The emerging innovation challenge to the West . In 2011, Thinkers50 named him number 26 of the “50 most influential management gurus.”,
Jon,Jon Nguyen,Tour the solar system from home,Engineer,https//www.linkedin.com/pub/jon-nguyen/2/3b/615,,Jon Nguyen is the Visualization Software Engineer at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He graduated from UCLA’s Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science in June 2009 with a B.S. Degree in Aeronautical Engineering, and served as the Chairman of the student branch of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics at UCLA. In 2008, Jon began working at NASAJPL as an academic part-time engineer in the Mars Science Laboratory project. He is now the principal architect and lead programmer for Eyes on the Solar System and has won several awards for his work at NASA, including the Mariner Individual Contribution Award.,
Wolfgang,Wolfgang Kessling,How to air-condition outdoor spaces,Physicist, transsolar.com,,Wolfgang Kessling is the Director of climate engineering company Transsolar , which aims to build structures that provide the highest possible comfort levels -- with the lowest possible impact on the environment. Kessling focuses on low energy/high comfort concepts for hot and humid climates. He has been a project manager for the Experimental Cloud in Frankfurt, Germany and the Gehry building for Novartis in Basel, Switzerland. In Asia he has worked on the innovative cooling concept of the Suvarnabhumi International Airport in Bangkok and the first Zero Energy Office in Malaysia. Kessling believes that the key to comfort is recognizing that environmental conditions are influenced by all aspects and stages of design.,
Peter ,Norvig,The 100,000-student classroom,Computer scientist, norvig.com,,Peter Norvig is a computer scientist and expert in both artificial intelligence and online search. Currently the Director of Research at Google Inc., Norvig was responsible for maintaining and improving the engine's core web search algorithms from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his work at Google, Norvig was NASA's chief computer scientist.,A fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence and the author of the book Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach , Norvig (along with Sebastian Thrun) taught the Stanford University class Introduction to Artificial Intelligence, which was made available to anyone in the world. More than 160,000 students from 209 countries enrolled.
Marco,Tempest,The electric rise and fall of Nikola Tesla,Techno-illusionist,marcotempest.com,,Marco Tempest’s imaginative combination of computer-generated imagery, quick-cut video and enthusiastic stage presence has earned him a place in the pantheon of great illusionists. At 22, the Swiss magician won the New York World Cup of Magic, launching him into international prominence. His lively phonecam postings on YouTube , done without post-production and video-editing tricks to astonished people on the street, get millions of views. At the MIT Media Lab , Tempest is researching the link between magic and technology as a Director's Fellow.,Through his art, Tempest creates a highly entertaining way to be entranced by the reality-bending tech magic that surrounds us all every day. Watch more Marco magic courtesy of Scobleizer ... or see Marco profiled on CNN.com's Next List .
Ivan,Oransky,Are we over-medicalized?,Health reporter,journalism.nyu.edu/faculty/ivan-oransky-md/,,Ivan Oransky is a doctor-turned reporter. With an MD and an internship completed, he left to cover heath and health care, bringing the insight of a trained doctor to the beat. He is now executive editor of Reuters Health, and also teaches journalism and medicine at New York University.,He is also the co-founder of Retraction Watch a blog that tracks and investigates retractions in scientific journals, and it's sister-site, Embargo Watch, doing the same for reporting on scientific papers.
David,R. Dow,Lessons from death row inmates,Death penalty lawyer,www.law.uh.edu/.../ddow2/dpage2/,,What does it feel like to know exactly the day and time you’re going to die -- because the state has decided for you? As a death penalty attorney in Texas, the state with the highest death penalty rate in the US, David R. Dow asks himself questions like this every day. In the past 20 years he has defended over 100 death row inmates, many of whom have died -- and most of whom were guilty. But according to an interview with Dow , “They should have been sentenced to life in prison instead of death at the hands of the state.” Dow is the Litigation Director at the Texas Defender Service and the Founder and Co-director of the Texas Innocence Network, an organization in which law students provide pro bono legal services to investigate claims of actual innocence brought by Texas prisoners. He writes on contract law, constitutional law and theory, and death penalty law, and has most recently published a book called The Autobiography of an Execution , partly a memoir and partly about the politics of capital punishment. Dow is a professor at the University of Houston Law Center.,“If you have reservations about supporting a racist, classist, unprincipled regime ... then the death-penalty system we have here in America will embarrass you to no end.” — David R. Dow
Megan, Kamerick,Women should represent women in media,Reporter,www.megankamerick.com/,,,
Rodney, Mullen,Pop an ollie and innovate!,Skater,rodneymullen.com/,,Known as the godfather of street skating, Rodney Mullen is one of the most prolific and influential skateboarders in history. Despite initial objections, his father eventually gave in and purchased Rodney's first skateboard in 1977, when he was ten years old, on the condition that he would always wear his safety pads and stop skating the moment he was injured. That same year he entered his first contest and came in third, then, over the next three years, he would place first in every contest he entered -- nearly thirty in all. In 1980, after winning the Oasis Pro competition in San Diego, Rodney began his professional skating career with the Powell-Peralta Bones Brigade. He would go on to invent tricks, like the flat-ground ollie, Kicklip, Heelflip, and 360 Flip that would completely revolutionize the art of skating. In 2002, Mullen won the Transworld Readers' Choice Award for Skater of the Year and founded the Almost skateboard company. In 2003, he wrote an autobiography titled The Mutt How to Skateboard and Not Kill Yourself.,“Rodney Mullen is, for me, hands down the best skater we've got.” — Steve Cave, Skateboarding Guide
LZ ,Granderson,The myth of the gay agenda,Journalist,www.cnn.com/OPINION/granderson.commentaries/archive/,,LZ Granderson is no ordinary sports columnist. The scope of his work and interests reaches well beyond the world of athletics into race, politics, and gay and lesbian issues. Granderson was first hired at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution as a home design writer, but with his passion for sports it wasn’t long before he became the lead writer for the paper’s entertainment section, where he made a name as a sportswriter. (Meanwhile he also ran a gay bar in Atlanta.) In 2003 ESPN The Magazine hired Granderson as a freelance writer, and in 2004 he became an NBA editor. Today Granderson continues his work at the Magazine and is a columnist for ESPN.com’s Page 2 and CNN.com.,Read his further thoughts on this talk on CNN Opinion >>
Sarah, Parcak,Archaeology from space,Space archaeologist, TED Fellow, sarahparcak.com,,Sarah Parcak is an archaeologist and Egyptologist, and specializes in making the invisible past visible using 21st-century satellite technology. She co-directs the Survey and Excavation Projects in the Fayoum, Sinai, and Egypt's East Delta with her husband, Dr. Greg Mumford. Parcak is the author of Satellite Remote Sensing for Archaeology, the first methods book on satellite archaeology, and her work has seeded several TV documentaries and specials on the BBC , CNN , the Science Channel and the Discovery Channel . She founded and directs the Laboratory for Global Observation at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, and is a National Geographic Explorer , a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and a TED Fellow.,
Beeban, Kidron,The shared wonder of film,Film director, Filmclub.org,,Beeban Kidron is a British filmmaker who successfully navigates between pop culture and society’s darkest underworlds. Kidron is best known for directing Bridget Jones The Edge of Reason (2004) and the Bafta-winning miniseries Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit (1989), adapted from Jeannette Winterson’s novel of the same name. She is also the director of To Wong Foo Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar (1995) and Antonia and Jane (1991), as well as two documentaries on prostitution Hookers, Hustlers, Pimps and their Johns (1993) and Sex, Death and the Gods (2011), a film about “devadasi,” or Indian “sacred prostitutes.”,In 2006 Kidron, with journalist and film critic Lindsay Mackie, founded FILMCLUB , an educational charity aimed at transforming the lives of young people through film. Through FILMCLUB, schools can screen films at no cost, and afterwards students discuss and review the films. Each week the charity reaches 220,000 children, in over 7,000 clubs.
Rebecca, Onie,What if our healthcare system kept us healthy?,Health services innovator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rebecca_onie,,In 1996, as a sophomore in college, Rebecca Onie had a realization The health care system in the United States was not set up to diagnose nor treat the socioeconomic issues that lead to poor health, and that health care providers are not given tools to address basic problems like nutrition and housing.,So, while still a sophomore, she co-founded Health Leads, a program that assists low-income patients and their families to access food, heat, and other basic resources they need to be healthy. With the additional insight that college volunteers could be recruited and trained into an elite group just like a college sport team, she found the people and skills needed to produce such an audacious idea. Since then it has grown tremendously, and now operates in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, New York, Providence, and Washington, DC, and in the last year assisted over 8,800 patients.
John, Hockenberry,We are all designers,Journalist,www.thetakeaway.org/,,Three-time Peabody Award winner, four-time Emmy award winner and Dateline NBC correspondent, John Hockenberry has broad experience as a journalist and commentator for more than two decades. He is the co-anchor of the public radio morning show “ The Takeaway ” on WNYC and PRI. He has reported from all over the world, in virtually every medium, having anchored programs for network, cable and radio. Hockenberry joined NBC as a correspondent for Dateline NBC in January 1996 after a fifteen-year career in broadcast news at both National Public Radio and ABC News. Hockenberry's reporting for Dateline NBC earned him three Emmys, an Edward R Murrow award and a Casey Medal.,His most prominent Dateline NBC reports include an hour-long documentary on the often-fatal tragedy of the medically uninsured, an emotionally gripping portrait of a young schizophrenic trying to live on his own, and extensive reporting in the aftermath of September 11th. In 2009 Hockenberry was appointed to the White House Fellows Commission by President Barack Obama where he participates in the selection of the annual Fellows for this most prestigious of Federal programs. Hockenberry is also the author of A River out of Eden , a novel based in the Pacific Northwest, and Moving Violations War Zones, Wheelchairs and Declarations of Independence, a memoir of life as a foreign correspondent, which was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1996. He has also written for The New York Times, The New Yorker, I.D., Wired, The Columbia Journalism Review, Details, and The Washington Post .
Ami, Klin,A new way to diagnose autism,Autism researcher,www.ctsn.emory.edu › Faculty,,Born in Brazil to Holocaust survivors, Ami Klin is the Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar Professor and Chief of the Division of Autism and Developmental Disabilities at Emory University School of Medicine, and Director of the Marcus Autism Center, a subsidiary of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. After studying psychology, political science and history at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Klin received his PhD in Psychology at the University of London in 1988. He completed clinical and research post-doctoral fellowships at the Yale Child Study Center at the Yale University School of Medicine -- where he would direct the Autism Program as Harris Professor of Child Psychology & Psychiatry. He has written in over over 180 publications, including five books on the subject of Autism.,
John, Hodgman,Design, explained.,Expert,www.johnhodgman.com/,,You may know him only as the PC in Apple's PC vs. Mac smackdown ads, or as the Daily Show with Jon Stewart 's Resident Expert. But John Hodgman has many other claims to fame. He's the author of The Areas of My Expertise , which provides vital and completely fake details on the great lobster conspiracy, hoboes, nine US presidents who had hooks for hands, and how to win a fight, the followup More Information Than You Require , and his newest (and he claims last), That Is All .,He is a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine , host of the Little Gray Book Lectures, a monthly series that has aired on This American Life , and an actual former professional literary agent.
Damian, Palin,Mining minerals from seawater,Biological miner,https//www.ted.com/speakers/damian_palin,,Research engineer Damian Palin has long been fascinated by the process of biomineralization–with particular attention on the mechanisms involved for mineral precipitation. At the Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology (in collaboration with Nanyang Technical University, Singapore), he conducts experiments to assess the ability of microorganisms to mine selected minerals out of seawater desalination brine. This study was based on compelling and burgeoning evidence from the field of geomicrobiology, which shows the ubiquitous role that microorganisms play in the cycling of minerals on the planet.,He says It is my aim to continue to research in the field of biomineralization, while exploring the mechanisms responsible for mild energetic mineral (including metal) precipitation for the production of mineral composites.
Terry, Moore,Why is 'x' the unknown?,Thinker,www.terrymooreart.com/,,Terry Moore directs the Radius Foundation in New York, which, as its website says, seeks new ways of exploring and understanding dissimilar conceptual systems or paradigms -- scientific, religious, philosophical, and aesthetic -- with the aim to find a world view of more complete insight and innovation. The Radius Foundation is a forum for different views.,The foundation has published several works that examine the intersection of religion and metaphysics with science and social action.
Diane, Kelly,What we didn't know about penis anatomy,Biologist,www.dianekelly.com/,,Diane A. Kelly is a Senior Research Fellow at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Her research interests include the evolution of copulatory systems and sexual differentiation in the nervous system. She is best known for her original work on the anatomy and function of vertebrate penises, but has also written children’s books, created exhibits for science museums, helped exhume a mastodon, and designed and published a pair of quirky science card games. Kelly holds a Ph.D. in Zoology from Duke University and an A.B. in Biological Sciences from the University of Chicago.,She blogs at Science Made Cool -- where she wrote about what it was like to give this talk .
Juan, Enriquez,Will our kids be a different species?,Futurist, excelvm.com,,A broad thinker who studies the intersection of science, business and society, Juan Enriquez has a talent for bridging disciplines to build a coherent look ahead. Enriquez was the founding director of the Harvard Business School Life Sciences Project , and has published widely on topics from the technical (global nucleotide data flow) to the sociological (gene research and national competitiveness), and was a member of Celera Genomics founder Craig Venter 's marine-based team to collect genetic data from the world's oceans.,Formerly CEO of Mexico City's Urban Development Corporation and chief of staff for Mexico's secretary of state, Enriquez played a role in reforming Mexico's domestic policy and helped negotiate a cease-fire with Zapatista rebels. He is a Managing Director at Excel Medical Ventures , a life sciences venture capital firm, and the chair and CEO of Biotechonomy , a research and investment firm helping to fund new genomics firms. The Untied States of America looks at the forces threatening America's future as a unified country.
David, Birch,A new way to stop identity theft,Digital money and identity consultant,www.dgwbirch.com/,,David G.W. Birch is a Director of Consult Hyperion, an electronic identity and transactions consultant. He is the Chairman of the annual Digital Money Forum and Digital Identity Forum in London and he has written for several publications including more than a hundred Second Sight columns for The Guardian newspaper. In 2007, he published Digital Identity Management Technological, Business and Social Implications under Gower Publishing Ltd. He hosts the Consult Hyperion podcast -- conversations with identity and digital transaction experts.,“One of Britain’s most acute observers of the internet and social networks.” — Yorick Wilks, Oxford Internet Institute
Seth, Shostak,ET is (probably) out there — get ready,Astronomer,www.seti.org › Our Scientists,,Seth Shostak is the Senior Astronomer at the the SETI Institute in Mountain View, California. Inspired by a book about the solar system he read at the age of ten, he began his career with a degree in physics from Princeton University and a PhD in astronomy from the California Institute of Technology before working with radio telescopes in the US and the Netherlands to uncover how the universe will end. In 1999, he produced twelve 30-minute lectures on audio-tape and video titled The Search for Intelligent Life in Space for the Teaching Company and has hosted SETI’s Big Picture Science podcast since 2002. In 2010, he was elected as a Fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry and is the Chair of the International Academy of Astronautics SETI Permanent Study Group. He has published four books, nearly 300 popular articles on astronomy, technology, film and television and gives frequent talks to both young and adult audiences.,
Quixotic ,Fusion,Dancing with light,Performance ensemble, quixoticfusion.com,,Quixotic, conceived by founder Anthony Magliano is an ensemble of artists from various disciplines including aerial acrobatics, dance, fashion, film, music and visual f-x. This inventive group of artists goes beyond the limits of any specific art form, challenging traditional perceptions and creating a total sensory experience unlike any other for its audience while exploring infinite possibilities of movement, sound and multimedia.,“I want Quixotic audiences to be challenged, to feel a little unsettled, to feel like it's a little bit dangerous.” — Anthony Magliano
Sebastian, Deterding,What your designs say about you,Designer, codingconduct.com,,Sebastian Deterding is a designer and researcher working on user experience, video games, persuasive technology and gameful design. He is interested in how code shapes conduct -- and how to put that knowledge into practice. He is a PhD researcher in Communication at the Graduate School of the Research Center for Media and Communication, Hamburg University. He is also an affiliated researcher at the Hans Bredow Institute for Media Research in Hamburg, and works as an independent user experience designer.,“[I] remain incredulous that a youth of boardgaming and dungeon keeping should have amounted to something in the end.” — Sebastian Deterding
Dalia, Mogahed,The attitudes that sparked Arab Spring,Pollster,mogahedconsulting.com/,,From her observatory as the head of the Gallup Center for Muslim Studies, Dalia Mogahed leads analysis of surveys of Muslims worldwide. She has recently studied the meaning and impact of the past year's events across the Middle East.,
William, Noel,Revealing the lost codex of Archimedes,Curator, rare book scholar,willnoel.com,,William Noel is the Curator of Manuscripts and Rare Books at the Walters Art Museum . But for someone who spends the majority of his time analyzing ancient and medieval artifacts, he also embraces social media and stresses its value even for the oldest, most established academic and cultural institutions. Noel believes passionately that institutions should free their digital data.,Since 1999 Noel has spearheaded the conservation of a manuscript known as the Archimedes Palimpsest . The palimpsest is a unique Byzantine prayer book made up of parchments which contain hidden writings from three original previously-unknown texts treatises written by Archimedes, works by the 4th-century B.C. Attic Orator Hyperides, and 3rd-century commentary on Aristotle’s Categories , by an unknown author. Using a powerful particle accelerator Noel and his team were able to uncover the hidden texts and publish all their images and findings on the Internet, available to anyone for free under a Creative Commons license.
Ken, Goldberg,4 lessons from robots about being human,Roboticist,goldberg.berkeley.edu/,,Ken Goldberg is a Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research in Robotics, Automation, and New Media at UC Berkeley and holds a position at UC San Francisco Medical School where he researches medical applications for robotics. Born in Nigeria and raised in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, Ken hold degrees in Electrical Engineering and Economics from the University of Pennsylvania and received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University. He is widely recognized as an engineer, a teacher, and an artist – receiving the Joseph F. Engelberger Robotics Award in 2000, the IEEE Major Educational Innovation Award in 2001, and Isadora Duncan Award in 2006 for his Ballet Mori project, performed by the San Francisco Ballet. His works have been exhibited at the Whitney Biennial in New York City, the Pompidou Centre in Paris, and the Ars Electronica in Linz. His book, The Robot in the Garden , was published in March of 2000 by the MIT Press.,
David, MacKay,A reality check on renewables,Professor,www.withouthotair.com/,,David MacKay is a professor of Natural Philosophy in the Physics department at the University of Cambridge and chief scientific adviser to the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change. He received a degree in Experimental and Theoretical Physics from Trinity College and a PhD. in Computation and Neural Systems as a Fulbright Scholar at Caltech. In 1992, MacKay was made the Royal Society Smithson Research Fellow at Darwin College at University of Cambridge and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in May 2009. He has also taught at the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences in Cape Town. In 2003, his book Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms was published and, in 2008, he self-published Sustainable Energy — Without the Hot Air . Both books are fully available for free online.,
Reggie, Watts,Beats that defy boxes,Vocalist, beatboxer, comedian, reggiewatts.com,,The winner of TED's Full Spectrum auditions, Reggie Watts works on the edge of improv performance -- at a place where you can almost visibly see his brain moving, as he pulls spoken and musical snippets from the sonosphere and blends them into a stream-of-consciousness flow. On screen, Reggie has appeared on The Conan O’Brien Show , Late Night with Jimmy Fallon , HBO’s The Yes Men Save the World , Comedy Central’s Michael and Michael Have Issues and PBS’ Electric Company . Last summer, he opened nightly on Conan O'Brien’s sold-out North American “Prohibited From Being Funny on Television” tour.,“Good comedians are great philosophers. You can either just have fun with the joke or you can have fun with the joke and think about the implication of it. It’s totally up to the listener.” — Reggie Watts
hereen,S El-Feki,HIV — how to fight an epidemic of bad laws,Arab sexuality expert,sexandthecitadel.com,,Dividing her time between London and Cairo, TED Fellow Shereen El Feki works on issues related to health and social welfare in the Arab region -- including intimate attitudes toward sexual (and political) freedoms, as explored in her new book, Sex and the Citadel .,Half-Egyptian and half-Welsh, El Feki was brought up in Canada. She started her professional life in medical science, with a PhD in molecular immunology from the University of Cambridge, and later worked as healthcare correspondent at The Economist . She also is a former vice chair of the United Nations' Global Commission on HIV and Law. While she has worked in regional media as a presenter with the Al Jazeera Network, and continues to write on social issues in the Arab world, her passion lies in projects that aim to better understand, and surmount, the social challenges facing Arabs, particularly young people.
Philippe, Petit,The journey across the high wire,High-wire artist, manonwire.com,,Besides having stretched a steel cable without permission between the towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, high-wire artist Philippe Petit is a street juggler, writes, draws, performs close-up magic, practices lock-picking and 18th-century timber framing, plays chess, studies French wine, gives lectures and workshops on creativity and motivation, and was recently sighted bullfighting in Peru. Also, he has been arrested over 500 times … for street juggling.,Petit’s book To Reach the Clouds is the basis of the Academy Award-wining documentary film Man on Wire . His new high-wire project on Easter Island -- Rapa Nui Walk -- is an homage to the Rapa Nui and their giant carved stone statues, the Moai.
Hans, Rosling,Religions and babies,Global health expert, data visionary, Gapminder.com,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Nathan, Wolfe,What's left to explore?,Virus hunter, GVFI.org,,Using genetic sequencing, needle-haystack research, and dogged persistence (crucial to getting spoilage-susceptible samples through the jungle and to the lab), Nathan Wolfe has proven what was science-fiction conjecture only a few decades ago -- not only do viruses jump from animals to humans, but they do so all the time . Along the way Wolfe has discovered several new viruses, and is poised to discover many more.,Wolfe's research has turned the field of epidemiology on its head, and attracted interest from philanthropists at Google.org and the Skoll foundation. Better still, the research opens the door to preventing epidemics before they happen , sidelining them via early-warning systems and alleviating the poverty from which easy transmission emerges.
Melissa, Garren,The sea we've hardly seen,Melissa Garren, Marine biologist,https//melissagarren.wordpress.com/contact-cv/,,Melissa Garren studies marine microbes to better understand how pollution and climate change are destroying coral reefs and effecting our environment. Working under a fellowship from the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute she began using molecular techniques to study microbial life in the ocean. At the Costa Rican wildlife refuge, Melissa helped spearhead a long-term monitoring project as well as educational initiatives. After recently receiving her Ph.D. in Marine Biology from the Center for Marine Biodiversity and Conservation, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, she is now using microfluidic technology to understand the living ecosystem of coral reefs in a postdoctoral position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.,
Michael, McDaniel,Cheap, effective shelter for disaster relief,Graphic designer,www.reactionhousing.com/,,Michael McDaniel has worked on a wide range of projects for clients including MTV, Comcast, AT&T, American Airlines, Best Buy, HP, Sprint and Disney. His designs have been widely recognized, he's received awards from the Society of Environmental Graphic Designers for work at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas, and from Cooper Union for a conceptual redesign of the interstate highway system.,Prompted by the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina on the city of New Orleans, McDaniel began working in his spare time for five years straight on what would become the Exo Reaction Housing System -- portable, cheap disaster relief shelters. He is a principal designer at frog and the founder and C.E.O. at Reaction Systems, Inc.
JR,JR,One year of turning the world inside out,Street artist, insideoutproject.net,,Working anonymously, pasting his giant images on buildings, trains, bridges, the often-guerrilla artist JR forces us to see each other. Traveling to distant, often dangerous places -- the slums of Kenya, the favelas of Brazil -- he infiltrates communities, befriending inhabitants and recruiting them as models and collaborators. He gets in his subjects’ faces with a 28mm wide-angle lens, resulting in portraits that are unguarded, funny, soulful, real, that capture the sprits of individuals who normally go unseen. The blown-up images pasted on urban surfaces – the sides of buildings, bridges, trains, buses, on rooftops -- confront and engage audiences where they least expect it. Images of Parisian thugs are pasted up in bourgeois neighborhoods, photos of Israelis and Palestinians are posted together on both sides of the walls that separate them. JR's most recent project, Women Are Heroes, depicts women dealing with the effects of war, poverty, violence, and oppression” from Rio de Janeiro, Phnom Penh, Delhi and several African cities. And his TED Prize wish opens an even wider lens on the world -- asking us all to turn the world inside out. Visit insideoutproject.net ...,“I would like to bring art to improbable places, create projects so huge with the community that they are forced to ask themselves questions.” — JR, Beaux Arts Magazine
Carl, Schoonover,How to look inside the brain,Neuroscience PhD student + writer,www.carlschoonover.com/,,Carl is a neuroscience PhD candidate at Columbia University, where he works on microanatomy and electrophysiology of rodent somatosensory cortex. He the author of Portraits of the Mind Visualizing the Brain from Antiquity to the 21st Century, and has written for the New York Times, Le Figaro, the Huffington Post, Science, Scientific American, Design Observer, and Boing Boing. In 2008 he cofounded NeuWrite, a collaborative working group for scientists, writers, and those in between. He hosts a radio show on WkCR 89.9FM, which focuses on opera and classical music, and their relationship to the brain.,
David, Kelley,How to build your creative confidence,Designer, educator,https//www.ideo.com/people/david-kelley,,As founder of legendary design firm IDEO, David Kelley built the company that created many icons of the digital generation -- the first mouse, the first Treo, the thumbs up/thumbs down button on your Tivo's remote control, to name a few. But what matters even more to him is unlocking the creative potential of people and organizations so they can innovate routinely.,David Kelley's most enduring contributions to the field of design are a methodology and culture of innovation. More recently, he led the creation of the groundbreaking d.school at Stanford, the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, where students from the business, engineering, medicine, law, and other diverse disciplines develop the capacity to solve complex problems collaboratively and creatively.
Jean-Baptiste, Michel,The mathematics of history,Data researcher,ngrams.googlelabs.com,,Jean-Baptiste Michel holds joint academic appointments at Harvard (FQEB Fellow) and Google (Visiting Faculty). His research focusses on using large volumes of data as tools that help better understand the world around us -- from the way diseases progress in patients over years, to the way cultures change in human societies over centuries. With his colleague Erez Lieberman Aiden, Jean-Baptiste is a Founding Director of Harvard's Cultural Observatory, where their research team pioneers the use of quantitative methods for the study of human culture, language and history. His research was featured on the covers of Science and Nature , on the front pages of the New York Times and the Boston Globe , in The Economist, Wired and many other venues. The online tool he helped create -- ngrams.googlelabs.com -- was used millions of times to browse cultural trends. Jean-Baptiste is an Engineer from Ecole Polytechnique (Paris), and holds an MS in Applied Mathematics and a PhD in Systems Biology from Harvard.,
Tali, Sharot,The optimism bias,Cognitive neuroscientist, theoptimismbias.com,,Optimism bias is the belief that the future will be better, much better, than the past or present. And most of us display this bias. Neuroscientist Tali Sharot wants to know why What is it about our brains that makes us overestimate the positive? She explores the question in her book The Optimism Bias A Tour of the Irrationally Positive Brain.,In the book (and a 2011 TIME magazine cover story), she reviewed findings from both social science and neuroscience that point to an interesting conclusion our brains aren't just stamped by the past. They are constantly being shaped by the future. In her own work, she's interested in how our natural optimism actually shapes what we remember, and her interesting range of papers encompasses behavioral research (how likely we are to misremember major events) as well as medical findings -- like searching for the places in the brain where optimism lives. Sharot is a faculty member of the Department of Cognitive, Perceptual and Brain Sciences at University College London.
Bart, Knols,Cheese, dogs and a pill to kill mosquitoes and end malaria,Malariologist, BartKnols.com,,Bart Knols is a malariologist with eleven years of experience managing large-scale research programs in East and Southern Africa. He’s worked at the United Nations (IAEA), served as a consultant for the World Health Organization, and acted as a Board Member of the UBS Bank Optimus Foundation in Switzerland. He has published over 140 peer-reviewed research articles and received the Ig Nobel Prize and an IAEA Special Service Award in 2006 and became a laureate of the Eijkman medal in 2007. He is currently the Managing Director at In2Care BV, Science Director & Managing Partner at Soper Strategies , and serves as Chair of the Advisory Board of the Dutch Malaria Foundation .,
José, Bowen,Beethoven the businessman,Professor of music,josebowen.com/,,In his over thirty-year career in music, José Bowen has appeared internationally with artists like Stan Getz, Dizzy Gillespie, and Bobby McFerrin, written over one hundred scholarly articles, and composed a Pulitzer Prize nominated symphony. He began teaching at Stanford University in 1982 before moving on to University of Southampton, Georgetown University, Miami University, and Southern Methodist University -- where he now resides as Dean of the Meadows School of the Arts, and Algur H. Meadows Chair and Professor of Music.,
Renny, Gleeson,404, the story of a page not found,Skeptimist,rennygleeson.com,,Renny Gleeson is a skeptical/optimist. He leads interactive strategy for ad agency Wieden+Kennedy who started his career as a game developer. He has been wondering what we can learn about ourselves through the millions of deaths taking place inside video games. He serves on the board of directors of Rhizome.org and is the co-founder of the PIE tech accelerator in Portland, Oregon. A mentor for tech accelerators and startups worldwide, he believes stories -- from cave paintings to interfaces to video games -- shape worlds.,
Joshua, Foer,Feats of memory anyone can do,Writer,joshuafoer.com/,,In 2005 science writer Joshua Foer went to cover the U.S. Memory Championship. A year later he was back -- as contestant. A year of mental training with Europe's top memorizer turned into a book, Moonwalking with Einstein , which is both a chronicle of his immersion in the memory culture and wonderfully accessible and informative introduction to the science of memory. Much more surprisingly, that year of training also turned into a first-place victory at the national competition in New York and the chance to represent the U.S. at the World Memory Championship. Foer's writing has appeared in National Geographic, Slate, the New York Times , and other publications. He is the co-founder of the Atlas Obscura, an online guide to the world’s wonders and curiosities, and is also the co-founder of the design competition Sukkah City.,“Memory training is not just for the sake of performing party tricks, it's about nurturing something profoundly and essentially human.” — Joshua Foer
Karen, Bass,Unseen footage, untamed nature,Natural history filmmaker, bbcearth.com/karenbass,,Karen Bass is a director and producer with a passion for travel and natural history. In 20 years at the BBC’s Natural History Unit, Bass made wildlife films in almost every environment across the Earth, from the rainforests of the Congo (where she produced the first-ever film of our closest relative, the bonobo), to the deserts of Libya, Syria and Jordan, from the icy peaks of the Andes to the swamps of the Amazon, from erupting volcanoes in the Caribbean to the nocturnal world of raccoons in downtown Manhattan. Her series include Andes to Amazon , exploring the wildlife and extreme landscapes of South America, Jungle , an investigation of the world’s rainforests, Wild Caribbean , about the varied nature, weather and landscapes of the Caribbean, and Nature’s Great Events , a dramatic portrayal of six of the planet’s most spectacular wildlife events.,Bass is now producing Untamed Americas , an epic series on the natural history of North, South and Central America, for National Geographic Television. The series is set to premiere in June 2012.
JP, Rangaswami,Information is food,Technologist, confusedofcalcutta.com,,With a background in economics and journalism, JP Rangaswami has been a technology innovator and chief information officer for many leading financial firms. As an advocate for open source and disruptive technologies, Rangaswami has been a leading force in the success of multiple startups, including School of Everything, Salesforce.com and Ribbit. He blogs (unmissably) at Confused of Calcutta .,
Michael, Tilson Thomas,Music and emotion through time,Musician, Conductor,michaeltilsonthomas.com/,,,
Rick, Guidotti,From stigma to supermodel,Photographer,positiveexposure.org/,,Rick Guidotti spent fifteen years as a fashion photographer working in New York, Milan, Paris, and London for everyone from Elle to Yves Saint Laurent. Then, in 1998, he founded Positive Exposure, a non profit organization dedicated to highlighting the beauty of genetic diversity and challenging the stigmas associated with differences in appearance. He lectures frequently and his show “Positive Exposure, The Spirit of Difference” -- which premiered in June 2001 at the People’s Genome Celebration at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History -- continues to tour internationally.,
Tavi, Gevinson,A teen just trying to figure it out,Blogger and fashion icon,www.thestylerookie.com/,,Born in April 1996, Tavi Gevinson started blogging at age eleven – then rapidly became a bona fide fashion icon. In 2009 she was featured on the cover of Pop magazine and was invited as a special guest to New York Fashion week. Her site for teenage girls, Rookie , broke the one-million page views within five days of launching in September 2011. She’s currently the editor-in-chief and founder of RookieMag.com and writes thestylerookie.com and has written for several publications including Harper's Bazaar , Jezebel , Lula , Pop , and GARAGE magazine.,“By unpicking the awkwardness of female adolescence and providing a place to talk about it, [Rookie has] helped feminism become almost fashionable. ” — Eva Wiseman, The Observer
Rory, Sutherland,Perspective is everything,Advertising guru,https//ogilvy.co.uk/.../rory-sutherland-takes-top-spot-d..,,From unlikely beginnings as a classics teacher to his current job as Vice Chairman of Ogilvy Group, Rory Sutherland has created his own brand of the Cinderella story. He joined Ogilvy & Mather's planning department in 1988, and became a junior copywriter, working on Microsoft's account in its pre-Windows days. An early fan of the Internet, he was among the first in the traditional ad world to see the potential in these relatively unknown technologies. An immediate understanding of the possibilities of digital technology and the Internet powered Sutherland's meteoric rise. He continues to provide insight into advertising in the age of the Internet and social media through his blog at Campaign's Brand Republic site, his column The Wiki Man at The Spectator and his busy Twitter account .,“Rory is the original advocate of '360-degree branding,' a persuasive and charismatic speaker and has a tremendous knack for making ideas come to life in an easily digestible way. He has been walking the walk longer than anyone.” — Gary Leih, Ogilvy Group Chairman
Gary, Kovacs,Tracking our online trackers,,wikipedia.org/wiki/Gary_Kovacs,,Gary Kovacs is the chief executive officer of AVG Technologies . Prior to joining AVG, he was CEO of Mozilla Corporation with the responsibility for leading the overall direction of the organization and the Firefox Web browser, after stints at Sybase/SAP, Adobe and Macromedia. He led the creation and growth of Zi Corporation, a company specializing in embedded software and services for mobile and consumer devices, and spent 10 years at IBM in leadership positions in product management, sales, marketing and operations within the global software division.,In his TED University talk, Kovacs introduces the tool Collusion, which is now called Lightbeam >>
Reuben, Margolin,Sculpting waves in wood and time,Kinetic sculptor, reubenmargolin.com,,“It's not like I'm trying to copy nature -- I'm trying to relate to it.” — Reuben Margolin,
Amory ,Lovins,A 40-year plan for energy,Physicist, energy guru,www.rmi.org › About RMI › Staff,,Amory Lovins was worried (and writing) about energy long before global warming was making the front -- or even back -- page of newspapers. Since studying at Harvard and Oxford in the 1960s, he's written dozens of books, and initiated ambitious projects -- cofounding the influential, environment-focused Rocky Mountain Institute , prototyping the ultra-efficient Hypercar -- to focus the world's attention on alternative approaches to energy and transportation.,His critical thinking has driven people around the globe -- from world leaders to the average Joe -- to think differently about energy and its role in some of our biggest problems  climate change, oil dependency, national security, economic health, and depletion of natural resources.
Liz, Diller,A new museum wing ... in a giant bubble,Designer,www.dsrny.com/,,Liz Diller's firm, Diller Scofidio & Renfro , might just be the first post-wall architects. From a mid-lake rotunda made of fog to a gallery that destroys itself with a robotic drill, her brainy takes on the essence of buildings are mind-bending and rebellious. DS+R partakes of criticism that goes past academic papers and into real structures -- buildings and art installations that seem to tease the squareness of their neighbors . DS+R was the first architecture firm to receive a MacArthur genius grant -- and it also won an Obie for Jet Lag , a wildly creative piece of multimedia off-Broadway theater. A reputation for rampant repurposing of materials and tricksy tinkering with space -- on stage, on paper, on the waterfront -- have made DS+R a sought-after firm, winning accounts from the Juilliard School, Alice Tully Hall and the School of American Ballet, as part of the Lincoln Center overhaul, at Brown University, and on New York's revamp of Governer's Island. Their Institute for Comtemporary Art has opened up a new piece of Boston's waterfront, creating an elegant space that embraces the water.,
Brenda, Romero,Gaming for understanding,Game designer,blromero.com,,For decades, Brenda Romero has been a major figure in the field of game design. Famous for her work on the role-playing series Wizardry , she’s also known for her work on Def Jam Icon , Playboy The Mansion , and Dungeons & Dragons Heroes . Inspired by her daughter in 2008, she began work on her non-digital series, The Mechanic Is the Message , dedicated to expressing difficult subjects through interactive media. Train , a game derived from the events of the Holocaust, won the Vanguard Award at Indiecade in October 2009.,Read TED's interview with Brenda Romero  To understand inequality, let's play a game. 
Joe, Smith,How to use a paper towel,Lawyer,espn.go.com/mlb/player/_/id/28729/joe-smith,,R.P. Joe Smith served as District Attorney for Umatilla County and is the former chair of the Oregon Democratic Party. He was the Executive Assistant to the Speaker of the Oregon House of Representatives and held a short interim position in the Oregon House of Representatives. An active lawyer in a private practice, he once famously ran for the position of Oregon Attorney General without soliciting a single contribution over $99.99.,
Nancy ,Lublin,Texting that saves lives,Activist,DoSomething.org,,Nancy Lublin draws our attention to an often underappreciated source of social action -- not just those at the top, but those in the middle. Separating the new and the scalable from what actually makes an impact, Nancy calls for a culture of doers. She is the CEO and Chief Old Person of DoSomething.org, the largest organization in America for young people and social change, and the founder of Dress for Success, the organization that helps women transition from welfare to work.,Lublin is deeply passionate about Do Something and the activist mission behind the organization. She says her first activist campaign was liberating the purple crayons in preschool after one loud boy had declared them “not allowed for girls.”
Eduardo, Paes,The 4 commandments of cities,Mayor of Rio de Janeiro,www.eduardopaes.com.br/en/,,Eduardo Paes started his political career as the head of the Barra da Tijuca and Jacarepaguá in Rio de Janeiro. He then became a city councilman, a congressman, the Municipal Secretary for Environment and State Government’s Secretary for Sports and Tourism in 2007. Paes was empowered by the Governor of Rio, Sérgio Cabral, to bring the preparations for the Pan American Games that would begin just seven months later back on track. In 2008, Eduardo Paes was elected Mayor of Rio de Janeiro.,Paes says that his mission as mayor is to ensure that Rio’s renaissance thanks to the Brazilian economic boom, the effective pacification policy developed by the State Government and the successful bid to host the 2016 Olympic Games creates a positive legacy for all Rio’s citizens.
Jon, Bergmann,Just how small is an atom?,Educator, flipped-learning.com,,Jon Bergmann is considered one of the pioneers in the Flipped Class Movement -- in fact, he co-wrote the book on the Flipped Classroom, available from ISTE Press in June 2012. Bergmann believes educators should ask one guiding question What is best for my students in my classroom? To the best of his abilities he has done this in his two-plus decades as a high school science teacher. He received the Presidential Award for Excellence for Math and Science Teaching in 2002 and was named Semi-Finalist for Colorado Teacher of the Year in 2010. He blogs at flipped-learning.com . He is the Lead Technology Facilitator for the Joseph Sears School in Kenilworth, Illinois.,Read about the making of How Small Is an Atom? >>
Michael, Norton,How to buy happiness,Social science researcher,www.nortonimplants.com/,,Michael I. Norton is a professor of business administration in the marketing unit at the Harvard Business School. He holds a B.A. in Psychology and English from Williams and a Ph.D. in Psychology from Princeton. Prior to joining HBS, Professor Norton was a Fellow at the MIT Media Lab and MIT’s Sloan School of Management. His work has been published in a number of leading academic journals, including Science , the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , Psychological Science , and the Annual Review of Psychology , and has been covered in media outlets such as the Economist, the Financial Times , the New York Times , the Wall Street Journal , and the Washington Post .,His research has twice been featured in the New York Times Magazine Year in Ideas issue, in 2007 (Ambiguity Promotes Liking) and 2009 (The Counterfeit Self). His “The IKEA Effect When Labor Leads to Love” was featured in Harvard Business Review ‘s Breakthrough Ideas for 2009.
Brian, Greene,Is our universe the only universe?,Physicist,www.briangreene.org/,,Greene, a professor of physics and mathematics at Columbia University, has focused on unified theories for more than 25 years, and has written several best-selling and non-technical books on the subject including The Elegant Universe , a Pulitzer finalist, and The Fabric of the Cosmos —each of which has been adapted into a NOVA mini-series. His latest book, The Hidden Reality, explores the possibility that our universe is not the only universe.,Greene believes science must be brought to general audiences in new and compelling ways, such as his live stage odyssey, Icarus at the Edge of Tim e, with original orchestral score by Philip Glass, and the annual World Science Festival, which he co-founded in 2008 with journalist Tracy Day.
Christina, Warinner,Tracking ancient diseases using ... plaque,Archaeological geneticist, Paleobot.org,,Tna analyzes DNA from the bones and teeth of ancient people to study human evolution in response to changes in infectious disease, diet and the environment over the last 10,000 years. Using samples from ancient skeletons and mummies, she investigates how and why lactase persistence, alcohol intolerance and HIv-resistance have evolved in different populations around the world. As an archaeogeneticist, she’s particularly interested in bridging the gap between archaeology, anthropology and the biomedical sciences.,
Laura, Carstensen,Older people are happier,Psychologist,longevity3.stanford.edu/people/laura-carstensen/,,,
Taryn, Simon,The stories behind the bloodlines,Photographer,tarynsimon.com,,With An American Index of the Hidden and Unfamiliar, Taryn Simon goes on the hunt for America's dirty secrets. Gaining entrance to places as diverse as a white tiger breeding facility, the JFK Airport quarantine area, abortion clinics and virus-research labs, Simon shows the things that are integral to America's foundation, mythology and daily functioning, but remain inaccessible or unknown to a public audience. In her earlier book, The Innocents, she shot portraits of more than 80 wrongly accused death-row inmates who were exonerated by DNA testing, and investigated photography's role in that process. But Simon's photographs stretch beyond mere documentation. Brimming with radiant light, unsettling atmosphere and sinister implications, they pulse with artistic mystery.,After having been premiered at the Tate Modern in London and at Berlin's Neue Nationalgalerie in 2011, Taryn's work, titled A Living Man Declared Dead and Other Chapters, will be at MoMA in New York from May 2nd to September 3rd, 2012.
Drew, Curtis,How I beat a patent troll,Web entrepreneur, Fark.com,,In 1993, while a student in England, Drew Curtis began sending links to his friends. Over time that grew until he founded a website for the links Fark.com. The site has now grown into one of the largest, and most irreverant, news aggregators on the web.,Along with managing Fark.com, Curtis speaks on behalf of other entrepreneurs targeted by  patent trolls  -- an epithet for companies or law firms that file aggressive, broad patent lawsuits against other companies.
Atul, Gawande,How do we heal medicine?,Surgeon and journalist,atulgawande.com,,Atul Gawande is author of three best-selling books Complications , a memoir of surgery, Better A Surgeon's Notes on Performance , and The Checklist Manifesto . His new book is Being Mortal Medicine and What Matters in the End . He is also a surgeon at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, a staff writer for The New Yorker , and a professor at Harvard Medical School and the Harvard School of Public Health. He has won the Lewis Thomas Prize for Writing about Science, a MacArthur Fellowship, and two National Magazine Awards. In his work in public health, he is Executive Director of Ariadne Labs , a joint center for health systems innovation, and chairman of Lifebox, a nonprofit organization making surgery safer globally.,Photo Aubrey Calo
Abigail, Washburn,Building US-China relations ... by banjo,Clawhammer banjo player, abigailwashburn.com,,,
Tal, Golesworthy,How I repaired my own heart,Engineer and artist,www.exstent.com/experiences-tal.html,,Tal Golesworthy is an experienced engineer and entrepreneur who branched out into bio-engineering in response to his own dilated aorta. His company now funds the research and development of devices that will help people with aortic dilation avoid major surgery and lifelong drug therapy.,He also has considerable expertise over a wide range of combustion and process plant including conventional and novel combustion systems, and his background has also included several years as an information scientist, and hot gas cleaning.
Melinda, Gates,Let's put birth control back on the agenda,Philanthropist,www.gatesfoundation.org/,,The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation works to help all people lead healthy, productive lives. As co-chair, Melinda French Gates helps shape and approve strategies, review results, advocate for foundation issues and set the overall direction. In developing countries, the foundation focuses on improving people's health with vaccines and other life-saving tools and giving them a chance to lift themselves out of hunger and extreme poverty. In the United States, it seeks to dramatically improve education so that all young people have the opportunity to reach their full potential. Based in Seattle, Washington, the foundation is led by CEO Jeff Raikes and co-chair William H. Gates Sr., under the direction of Bill Gates, Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett.,In recent years, Melinda French Gates has become a vocal advocate for access to contraception, advancing the idea that empowering women to decide whether and when to have children can have transformational effects on societies. In 2012, Gates spearheaded the London Summit on Family Planning, with the goal of delivering contraceptives to 120 million women in developing countries by 2020. When asked why she got involved in this issue, Gates said, We knew that 210 million women were saying they wanted access to the contraceptives we have here in the United States and we weren't providing them because of political controversy in our country. To me, that was just a crime. I kept looking around trying to find the person to get this back on the global stage. I realized I just had to do it.
Frans, de Waal,Moral behavior in animals,Primatologist,www.psychology.emory.edu/nab/dewaal/,,Dr. Frans B. M. de Waal is a biologist and primatologist known for his work on the behavior and social intelligence of primates. His first book, Chimpanzee Politics (1982), compared the schmoozing and scheming of chimpanzees involved in power struggles with that of human politicians. Ever since, de Waal has drawn parallels between primate and human behavior, from peacemaking and morality to culture. His scientific work has been published in hundreds of technical articles in journals such as Science, Nature, Scientific American, and outlets specialized in animal behavior. His popular books – translated into fifteen languages – have made him one of the world’s most visible primatologists. His latest books are Our Inner Ape (2005, Riverhead) and The Age of Empathy (2009, Harmony).,De Waal is C. H. Candler Professor in the Psychology Department of Emory University and Director of the Living Links Center at the Yerkes National Primate Center , in Atlanta. He has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences (US), the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences. In 2007, he was selected by Time as one of The Worlds’ 100 Most Influential People Today , and in 2011 by Discover as among 47 (all time) Great Minds of Science.
Frank, Warren,Half a million secrets,Secret keeper, PostSecret.com,,Frank Warren is the creator of The PostSecret Project , a collection of highly personal and artfully decorated postcards mailed anonymously from around the world, displaying the soulful secrets we never voice. Since November 2004, Warren has received more than 500,000 postcards, with secrets that run from sexual taboos and criminal activity to confessions of secret beliefs, hidden acts of kindness, shocking habits and fears. PostSecret is a safe and anonymous place where people can hear unheard voices and share untold stories.,“The secrets I receive reflect the full spectrum of complicated issues that many of us struggle with every day Intimacy, trust, meaning, humor, and desire.” — Frank Warren
Jonathan, Foley,The other inconvenient truth,Professor,environment.umn.edu/.../jonathan-foley-receives-prestigious-heinz-awar...,,Dr. Jonathan Foley focusses on the complex relationship between global environmental systems and human civilization, using computer models to analyze changes in land use, ecosystems and resources around the world. After 15 years at the University of Wisconsin, Foley is now a professor and McKnight Presidential Chair in the Department of Ecology and director of the Institute on the Environment at the University of Minnesota.,
Carvens, Lissaint,Put the financial aid in the bag,Performance artist,thestriversrow.com/carvens-lissaint/,,Carvens Lissaint is a Haitian American performance artist. Raised in Upper West Side Harlem, New York, he lives in Washington Heights. He established himself as a spoken word artist in 2006 and went on to win multiple poetry slams across the country and coach award-winning teams. He made his transition into musical theater in 2007 as a part of the Hip Hopera Theater troupe, working with Edward A. Reynolds West Side High School in collaboration with the Metropolitan Theater Opera Guild. He also debuted his high-energy one-man show Walk (directed and co-developed by Queen God-Is, choreographed by Nicco Anann) at Dance Theater Workshop and off Broadway at the 2009 Hip Hop Theater Festival. Carvens lives, eats and breathes art hoping to share his light and become a better being of the Universe.,
Lucy, McRae,How can technology transform the human body?,Body architect, lucymcrae.net,,,
Jack, Choi,On the virtual dissection table,Technologist, anatomage.com,,Jack W. Choi is the founder and CEO of Anatomage Inc., based in California. Beginning as an imaging software company, Anatomage now makes 3D imaging software, an image-guided surgical device, anatomy modeling contents and the virtual dissection table.,
Chip, Kidd,Designing books is no laughing matter. OK, it is.,Graphic designer,chipkidd.com,,You know a Chip Kidd book when you see it -- precisely because it's unexpected, non-formulaic, and perfectly right for the text within. As a graphic designer for Alfred A. Knopf since 1986, Kidd has designed shelves full of books, including classics you can picture in a snap Jurassic Park, Naked by David Sedaris, All the Pretty Horses … His monograph, Chip Kidd Book One , contains work spanning two decades. As editor and art director for Pantheon Graphic novels, Kidd has commissioned work from cartoonists including Chris Ware, Art Spiegelman, Dan Clowes and Art Spiegelman. He's a novelist as well, author of The Cheese Monkeys and The Learners .,Chip received the Cooper-Hewitt’s National Design Award for Communication in 2007, the International Center of Photography’s Infinity Award for Design in 1997 and the AIGA Medal in 2014.
Sherry, Turkle,Connected, but alone?,Cultural analyst, alonetogetherbook.com,,Since her pathbreaking The Second Self Computers and The Human Spirit in 1984 psychologist and sociologist Sherry Turkle has been studying how technology changes not only what we do but who we are. In 1995's Life on the Screen Identity in the Age of the Internet , Turkle explored how the Internet provided new possibilities for exploring identity.,Described as the Margaret Mead of digital cuture, Turkle has now turned her attention to the world of social media and sociable robots. As she puts it, these are technologies that propose themselves as the architect of our intimacies. In her most recent book, Alone Together Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other , Turkle argues that the social media we encounter on a daily basis are confronting us with a moment of temptation. Drawn by the illusion of companionship without the demands of intimacy, we confuse postings and online sharing with authentic communication. We are drawn to sacrifice conversation for mere connection. Turkle suggests that just because we grew up with the Internet, we tend to see it as all grown up, but it is not Digital technology is still in its infancy and there is ample time for us to reshape how we build it and use it.
Tierney, Thys + Plankton Chronicles Project,The secret life of plankton,Marine biologist, Oceansunfish.org,,Marine biologist Tierney Thys has fallen head over heels for a big, goofy fish the Mola mola, or giant ocean sunfish. In studying the mola -- where they go, what they eat, what eats them -- she's also hunting for clues to the behavior of all life in the open ocean. With their enormous, odd bodies, peaceful habits and lust for jellyfish, these giants can be key to understanding life in the open ocean . Thys and her team are tagging and tracking molas worldwide to learn about how they live, and how climate change may be affecting all ocean life. Thys is a National Geographic Explorer with a passion for marine education. She was also past director of research at the Sea Studios Foundation , a team of scientists and filmmakers that makes media to raise awareness of environmental issues -- including the PBS series Strange Days on Planet Earth and targeted videos that influence policymakers and businesspeople. Sea Studios was also instrumental in helping eBay stop the trading of invasive species.,
Rick, Falkvinge,I am a pirate,,falkvinge.net/,,Rick Falkvinge went from entrepreneur to politician on January 1st, 2006, when he launched the Pirate Party website, forming a political party that called for sensible copyright laws and protection of civil liberties online. Just three years later, the Pirate Party won two seats in European Parliament. In 2011, Falkvinge stepped down as leader of the Swedish Pirate Party to devote more time to speaking about copyright law, internet sovereignty and information policy. Foreign Policy magazine named him one of the top 100 global thinkers of 2011, and he has been nominated as one of TIME’s 100 most influential people of 2012.,
Daniel, Schnitzer,Inventing is the easy part,Founder and Executive Director, Earthspark International,www.earthsparkinternational.org/board-of-directors.html,,,
Marco, Tempest,A magical tale (with augmented reality),Techno-illusionist,marcotempest.com,,Marco Tempest’s imaginative combination of computer-generated imagery, quick-cut video and enthusiastic stage presence has earned him a place in the pantheon of great illusionists. At 22, the Swiss magician won the New York World Cup of Magic, launching him into international prominence. His lively phonecam postings on YouTube , done without post-production and video-editing tricks to astonished people on the street, get millions of views. At the MIT Media Lab , Tempest is researching the link between magic and technology as a Director's Fellow.,Through his art, Tempest creates a highly entertaining way to be entranced by the reality-bending tech magic that surrounds us all every day. Watch more Marco magic courtesy of Scobleizer ... or see Marco profiled on CNN.com's Next List .
Ayah, Bdeir,Building blocks that blink, beep and teach,Engineer and artist, ayahbdeir.com,,,
Leymah, Gbowee,Unlock the intelligence, passion, greatness of girls,Peace activist, Nobelist, leymahgbowee.com,,Liberia's second civil war, 1999-2003, brought an unimaginable level of violence to a country still recovering from its first civil war (1989-96). And much of that violence was directed at women Systematic rape and brutality used women's bodies as fields for war.,Leymah Gbowee, who'd become a social worker during the first war, helped organize an interreligious coalition of Christian and Muslim women called the Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace movement. Dressed in white, these thousands of women staged pray-ins and nonviolent protests demanding reconciliation and the resuscitation of high-level peace talks. The pressure pushed Charles Taylor into exile, and smoothed the path for the election of Africa’s first female head of state, Leymah's fellow 2011 Nobel Peace laureate Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.
Regina, Dugan,From mach-20 glider to hummingbird drone,Former director of DARPA,www.cio.com/.../inside-google-s-advanced-technology-and-projects-gro.,,Businesswoman and technology developer Regina Dugan achieved national prominence when she became the first woman in charge of Darpa, the Pentagon's research arm. Dugan earned a reputation as a motivator and creative thinker, spurring non-traditional projects like a nationwide contest to find hidden balloons in order to test the power of social networks for intelligence gathering. In a previous stint at the agency, Dugan investigated mine-detection technology, and her work wasn't limited to the lab. In Mozambique she drove a mine-clearing vehicle during a live detection exercise. Dugan currently is senior vice president at Motorola, where her mission is to advance the company's technology, which one day may include password tattoos. Ask her and she may show you hers.,“Our singular mission is the prevention and creation of strategic surprise.” — Regina Dugan
Donald, Sadoway,The missing link to renewable energy,Materials engineer,www.donaldsadoway.com/,,The problem at the heart of many sustainable-energy systems How to store power so it can be delivered to the grid all the time, day and night, even when the wind's not blowing and the sun's not shining? At MIT , Donald Sadoway has been working on a grid-size battery system that stores energy using a three-layer liquid-metal core. With help from fans like Bill Gates, Sadoway and two of his students have spun off the Liquid Metals Battery Corporation (LMBC) to bring the battery to market.,“How do we attack important problems? Pose the right question.” — Donald Sadoway
Peter, Saul,Let's talk about dying,Doctor, intensive care specialist,venusovermanhattan.com/exhibition/from-pop-to-punk-,,Dr. Peter Saul is a Senior Intensive Care specialist in the adult and pediatric ICU at John Hunter Hospital, and Director of Intensive Care at Newcastle Private Hospital in Australia. After spending time as the Head of Discipline for Medical Ethics at Newcastle University, he is now a leading adviser to the State and Federal health departments.,
Jer ,Thorp,Make data more human,Data artist, blprnt.com,,Currently the data artist in residence at the New York Times , Jer’s software-based art has been featured all over the world. His former career as a data artist explains why his art often brings big data sets to life and is deeply influenced by science. Originally from Vancouver, he lives in New York City, where, along with his work at the New York Times , he teaches in NYU’s ITP program.,“Underpinning Jer’s examples is a powerful common thread of humanizing data and making it a living piece of our personal histories and cultural poetics.” — Maria Popova
Billy, Collins,Everyday moments, caught in time,Poet, billy-collins.com,,Accessibility is not a word often associated with great poetry. Yet Billy Collins has managed to create a legacy from what he calls being poetically “hospitable.” Preferring lyrical simplicity to abstruse intellectualism, Collins combines humility and depth of perception, undercutting light and digestible topics with dark and at times biting humor.,While Collins approaches his work with a healthy sense of self-deprecation, calling his poems “domestic” and “middle class,” John Taylor has said of Collins “Rarely has anyone written poems that appear so transparent on the surface yet become so ambiguous, thought-provoking, or simply wise once the reader has peered into the depths.”
Taylor, Wilson,Yup, I built a nuclear fusion reactor,Nuclear scientist,www.sciradioactive.com/,,Physics wunderkind Taylor Wilson astounded the science world when, at age 14, he became the youngest person in history to produce fusion. The University of Nevada-Reno offered a home for his early experiments when Wilson’s worried parents realized he had every intention of building his reactor in the garage. Wilson now intends to fight nuclear terror in the nation's ports, with a homemade radiation detector priced an order of magnitude lower than most current devices. In 2012, Wilson's dreams received a boost when he became a recipient of the $100,000 Thiel Prize . Wilson now intends revolutionize the way we produce energy, fight cancer, and combat terrorism using nuclear technology.,“Kenneth asked a nuclear-pharmacist friend to come over to check on Taylor’s safety practices. As far as he could tell, the friend said, the boy was getting it right. ” — Tom Clynes, Popular Science
Noel ,Bairey Merz,The single biggest health threat women face,Physician,https//www.cedars-sinai.edu/.../C-Noel-Bair.,,C. Noel Bairey Merz, MD, holds the Women's Guild Endowed Chair in Women's Health, and is Director of the Women's Heart Center and the Preventive and Rehabilitative Cardiac Center in the Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, where she is a Professor of Medicine.,Dr. Bairey Merz's research interests include women and heart disease, mental stress and heart disease, the role of exercise and stress management in reversing disease, and the role of nutrition in heart disease. Currently, she is chair of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)-sponsored WISE (Women's Ischemic Syndrome Evaluation) initiative.
T. Boone, Pickens,Let's transform energy — with natural gas,Entrepreneur and energy theorist,boonepickens.com,,T. Boone Pickens views America's dependence on OPEC oil as the greatest threat to the country's national security and economic well-being. In developing The Pickens Plan for America’s energy future, he's advocating for domestic alternatives and even greater new technologies. Pickens grew from humble beginnings in Depression-era Holdenville, Oklahoma, to be one of the nation’s most successful oil and gas entrepreneurs, and has been uncannily accurate in predicting oil and gas prices (CNBC coined him the “Oracle of Oil”) -- and he's established a very successful energy-oriented investment fund. Pickens is also an innovative, committed philanthropist who has donated nearly $1 billion to charity.,
Mark, Raymond,Victims of the city,Architect, markraymond.com,,Mark Raymond is the president of the The Trinidad and Tobago Institute of Architects -- a firm dedicated to safeguarding sustainable, ethical and artistic design throughout the islands. He studied at the Architectural Association in London and worked for Norman Foster and DEGW before returning to Trinidad. Mark works on a wide variety of architectural, urban design and landscaping projects. He has also lectured in the US, UK and throughout the Caribbean.,
Scott ,Summit,Beautiful artificial limbs,Industrial Designer,www.summitid.com/,,Scott Summit is the founder and chief technology officer of Bespoke Innovations. Founded in 2010 in collaboration with an orthopaedic surgeon, their focus is to create individualized artificial limbs that the patients themselves can choose and personalize. With more than 20 patents to his name, he has held faculty positions at Stanford, Carnegie Mellon and Singularity University. He is also the founder of industrial design firm Summit ID.,
Brené, Brown,Listening to shame,Vulnerability researcher, brenebrown.com,,Brené Brown is a research professor at the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work . She has spent the past ten years studying vulnerability, courage, authenticity, and shame. She spent the first five years of her decade-long study focusing on shame and empathy, and is now using that work to explore a concept that she calls Wholeheartedness. She poses the questions,How do we learn to embrace our vulnerabilities and imperfections so that we can engage in our lives from a place of authenticity and worthiness? How do we cultivate the courage, compassion, and connection that we need to recognize that we are enough – that we are worthy of love, belonging, and joy?
Rob, Reid,The $8 billion iPod,Author, entrepreneur,ReadRobReid.com,,Rob Reid is an author and a serial entrepreneur. He founded the company that created the Rhapsody music website, and his latest book, Year Zero , was published in July 2013. In it, aliens seek to erase the ruinous fines on their vast collections of pirated American music by destroying the Earth. Parts of it are made up. The audiobook version will be read by John Hodgman .,On the TED Blog, read more on the numbers behind Copyright Math >>
Jonathan, Haidt,Religion, evolution, and the ecstasy of self-transcendence,Social psychologist,AsteroidsClub.org,,Haidt is a social psychologist whose research on morality across cultures led up to his much-quoted 2008 TEDTalk on the psychological roots of the American culture war. He asks, Can't we all disagree more constructively? In September 2009, Jonathan Haidt spoke to the TED Blog about the moral psychology behind the healthcare debate in the United States. He's also active in the study of positive psychology and human flourishing.,At TED2012 he explored the intersection of his work on morality with his work on happiness to talk about “hive psychology” – the ability that humans have to lose themselves in groups pursuing larger projects, almost like bees in a hive. This hivish ability Is crucial, he argues, for understanding the origins of morality, politics, and religion. These are ideas that Haidt develops at greater length in his new book, The Righteous Mind Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion . Learn more about his drive for a more productive and civil politics on his website CivilPolitics.org . And take an eye-opening quiz about your own morals at YourMorals.org .
Adam, Savage,How simple ideas lead to scientific discoveries,Fabricator,adamsavage.com,,As his official MythBusters bio puts it, Adam Savage has spent his life gathering skills that allow him to take what's in his brain and make it real. He worked as a special-effects artist, fabricator, modelmaker and general dreamer-upper for a decade and a half, working on films such as Galaxy Quest and the Matrix sequels, as well as Episodes I and II of the Star Wars series.,In 2002, he and his fellow movie-industry veteran Jamie Hyneman became the hosts of MythBusters , a Discovery Channel show that puts urban myths and rules of thumb to test in visceral, often hilarious ways. Behind the sheer awesomeness of their rocket cars and flaming projectiles, the MythBusters are a force for science education.
David, Gallo,Deep ocean mysteries and wonders,Oceanographer,davidgallo.com/,,David Gallo works to push the bounds of oceanic discovery. Active in undersea exploration (sometimes in partnership with legendary Titanic -hunter Robert Ballard), he was one of the first oceanographers to use a combination of manned submersibles and robots to map the ocean world with unprecedented clarity and detail. He was a co-expedition leader during an exploration of the RMS Titanic and the German battleship Bismarck, using Russian Mir subs.,On behalf of the Woods Hole labs, he appears around the country speaking on ocean and water issues. Most recently he co-led an expedition to create the first detailed and comprehensive map of the RMS Titanic and he co-led the successful international effort to locate the wreck site of Air France flight 447. He is involved in planning an international Antarctic expedition to locate and document the wreckage of Ernest Shackleton’s ship, HMS Endurance.
Chris, Anderson,Questions no one knows the answers to,TED Curator,anderson.tv/,,TED's Chris Anderson was born in a remote village in Pakistan, and spent his early years in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan, where his father worked as a missionary eye surgeon. He graduated from Oxford University with a degree in philosophy , and then trained as a journalist. After several years at newspapers and radio stations, he got hooked on the strange new home computers which had just started appearing. He became an editor at one of the UK's early computer magazines, and a year later, in 1985, formed a tiny start-up to launch his own magazine. Its unlikely success led to more launches, and his company Future Publishing grew rapidly under the moniker media with passion. Anderson expanded to the United States in 1994, where he built Imagine Media, publisher of Business 2.0 magazine, and creator of the popular games website IGN . The combined companies eventually spawned more than 100 monthly magazines, employing 2,000 people. And they allowed Anderson to create a private nonprofit foundation, the Sapling Foundation, which hoped to find new ways of tackling tough global issues by leveraging media, technology, entrepreneurship, and most of all, ideas . Sapling acquired the TED Conference in 2001, and Anderson then left his businesses to focus on growing TED. (He is not to be confused with his super-smart friend, the Chris Anderson who edits WIRED magazine and wrote The Long Tail .),“You're part of the crowd that may be about to ignite the biggest learning cycle in human history.” — Chris Anderson, from TEDTalk on Crowd-Accelerated Innovation
Greg, Gage,The cockroach beatbox,Neuroscientist, BackyardBrains.com,,As half of Backyard Brains , neuroscientist and engineer Greg Gage builds the SpikerBox -- a small rig that helps kids understand the electrical impulses that control the nervous system. He's passionate about helping students understand (viscerally) how our brains and our neurons work, because, as he said onstage at TED2012, we still know very little about how the brain works -- and we need to start inspiring kids early to want to know more.,Before becoming a neuroscientist, Gage worked as an electrical engineer making touchscreens. As he told the Huffington Post  Scientific equipment in general is pretty expensive, but it's silly because before [getting my PhD in neuroscience] I was an electrical engineer, and you could see that you could make it yourself. So we started as a way to have fun, to show off to our colleagues, but we were also going into classrooms around that time and we thought, wouldn't it be cool if you could bring these gadgets with us so the stuff we were doing in advanced Ph.D. programs in neuroscience, you could also do in fifth grade? His latest pieces of gear the Roboroach, a cockroach fitted with an electric backpack that makes it turn on command, and BYB SmartScope, a smartphone-powered microscope.
Larry, Smith,Why you will fail to have a great career,Professor of Economics, University of Waterloo,www.smithmag.net/larrysmith/,,Larry Smith is a professor of economics at University of Waterloo. A well-known storyteller and advocate for youth leadership, he has also mentored many of his students on start-up business management and career development. The most notable start-up he advised in its infancy is Research in Motion (RIM), maker of the BlackBerry.,What you see in the TED Talk is essentially thirty years of Smith’s frustrations reaching a boiling point, wrote Carmine Gallo in Forbes . “'Wasted talent is a waste I cannot stand,' Smith told me.
Kelli,Anderson,Design to challenge reality,Artist, designer,www.kellianderson.com/,,,
Improv,Improv Everywhere,A TED speaker's worst nightmare,Social energy entrepreneur, improvEverywhere.com,,Colin Robertson is a young entrepreneur with a single, world-changing idea crowdsource solar energy solutions to the global climate crisis. He is a passionate believer in the idea that we can solve all of our problems by coming together in groups.,He is also a fictional character created by ImprovEverywhere for a special prank at TED2012. He is played by Eugene Cordero, an actor and comedian based in Los Angeles, and a regular performer at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater.
Jennifer, Pahlka,Coding a better government,Code activist, codeforamerica.org,,Jennifer Pahlka is the founder and executive director of Code for America, which works with talented web professionals and cities around the country to promote public service and reboot government. She spent eight years at CMP Media where she led the Game Group, responsible for GDC, Game Developer magazine, and Gamasutra.com , there she also launched the Independent Games Festival and served as executive director of the International Game Developers Association. Recently, she ran the Web 2.0 and Gov 2.0 events for TechWeb and co-chaired the successful Web 2.0 Expo. She is a graduate of Yale University and lives in Oakland, CA with her daughter and six chickens.,
James, Hansen,Why I must speak out about climate change,Climatologist,www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/,,James Hansen is Adjunct Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University’s Earth Institute. He was trained in physics and astronomy in the space science program of James Van Allen at the University of Iowa. His early research on the clouds of Venus helped identify their composition as sulfuric acid. Since the late 1970s, he has focused his research on Earth's climate, especially human-made climate change. From 1981 to 2013, he headed the NASA Godard Institute for Space Studies. He is also a member of the National Academy of Sciences.,Hansen is known for his testimony on climate change to congressional committees in the 1980s that helped raise broad awareness of the global warming issue. Hansen is recognized for speaking truth to power, for identifying ineffectual policies as greenwash, and for outlining the actions that the public must take to protect the future of young people and the other species on the planet.
Andrew, Stanton,The clues to a great story,Filmmaker, pixar.com,,Andrew Stanton wrote the first film produced entirely on a computer, Toy Story . But what made that film a classic wasn't the history-making graphic technology -- it's the story, the heart, the characters that children around the world instantly accepted into their own lives. Stanton wrote all three Toy Story movies at Pixar Animation Studios, where he was hired in 1990 as the second animator on staff. He has two Oscars, as the writer-director of Finding Nemo and WALL-E. And as Edgar Rice Burroughs nerds, we're breathlessly awaiting the March opening of his fantasy-adventure movie John Carter .,“I almost feel like it’s an obligation to not further the status quo if you become somebody with influence and exposure.” — Andrew Stanton
Bryan, Stevenson,We need to talk about an injustice,Public-interest lawyer,bryanstevenson.com/,,Bryan Stevenson is a public-interest lawyer who has dedicated his career to helping the poor, the incarcerated and the condemned. He's the founder and executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative , an Alabama-based group that has won major legal challenges eliminating excessive and unfair sentencing, exonerating innocent prisoners on death row, confronting abuse of the incarcerated and the mentally ill, and aiding children prosecuted as adults.,EJI recently won an historic ruling in the U.S. Supreme Court holding that mandatory life-without-parole sentences for all children 17 or younger are unconstitutional. Mr. Stevenson’s work fighting poverty and challenging racial discrimination in the criminal justice system has won him numerous awards. He is a graduate of the Harvard Law School and the Harvard School of Government, and has been awarded 14 honorary doctorate degrees
Susan, Cain,The power of introverts,Quiet revolutionary, thepowerofintroverts.com,,Susan Cain is a former corporate lawyer and negotiations consultant -- and a self-described introvert. At least one-third of the people we know are introverts, notes Cain in her new book Quiet The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking . Although our culture undervalues them dramatically, introverts have made some of the great contributions to society – from Chopin's nocturnes to the invention of the personal computer to Gandhi’s transformative leadership. Cain argues that we design our schools, workplaces, and religious institutions for extroverts, and that this bias creates a waste of talent, energy, and happiness. Based on intensive research in psychology and neurobiology and on prolific interviews, she also explains why introverts are capable of great love and great achievement, not in spite of their temperaments -- but because of them.,How did Susan write her talk (in a week)? Watch this interview >>
Vijay, Kumar,Robots that fly ... and cooperate,Roboticist,www.kumarrobotics.org/,,At the General Robotics, Automation, Sensing and Perception (GRASP) Lab, at the University of Pennsylvania, flying quadrotor robots move together in eerie formation, tightening themselves into perfect battalions, even filling in the gap when one of their own drops out. You might have seen viral videos of the quads zipping around the netting-draped GRASP Lab (they juggle! they fly through a hula hoop!). Vijay Kumar headed this lab from 1998-2004, he's now the Deputy Dean for Education in the School of Engineering and Applied Science at the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, where he continues his work in robotics, blending computer science and mechanical engineering to create the next generation of robotic wonders.,
Peter ,Diamandis,Abundance is our future,Space activist,www.diamandis.com/,,Watch the live onstage debate with Paul Gilding that followed Peter Diamandis' 2012 TEDTalk >>,Peter Diamandis is the founder and chair of the X Prize Foundation , a nonprofit whose mission is simply to bring about radical breakthroughs for the benefit of humanity. By offering a big cash prize for a specific accomplishment, the X Prize stimulates competition and excitement around some of the planet's most important goals. Diamandis is also co-founder and chairman of Singularity University which runs Exponential Technologies Executive and Graduate Student Programs.
Paul ,Gilding,The Earth is full,Writer, paulgilding.com,,Watch the debate with Peter Diamandis that followed this talk >>,Paul Gilding has spent 35 years trying to change the world. He’s served in the Australian military, chased nuclear armed aircraft carriers in small inflatable boats, plugged up industrial waste discharge pipes, been global CEO of Greenpeace, taught at Cambridge University, started two successful businesses and advised the CEOs of some the world’s largest companies.
Daniel ,Pauly,The ocean's shifting baseline,Fisheries biologist, ecopath.org,,Daniel Pauly heads the Sea Around Us Project, based at the Fisheries Centre, at the University of British Columbia. Pauly has been a leader in conceptualizing and codeveloping software that’s used by ocean experts throughout the world. At the Sea Around Us and in his other work, he’s developing new ways to view complex ocean data.,Pauly’s work includes the Ecopath ecological/ecosystem modeling software suite, the massive FishBase, the online encyclopaedia of fishes, and, increasingly, the quantitative results of the Sea Around Us Project.
Paul, Snelgrove,A census of the ocean,Marine biologist,coml.org,,From 2000 to 2010, the Census of Marine Life ran a focused international effort to catalogue as much knowledge as possible about the creatures living in our oceans. (It had never really been done before.) Some 2,700 scientists from 80 countries, on 540 expeditions, worked to assess the diversity, distribution, and abundance of marine life. More than 6,000 potential new species were discovered, amid scenes of ocean degradation, resilience, and wonder. It was Paul Snelgrove's job to synthesize this mass of findings into a book. Snelgrove, a professor at Memorial University in Newfoundland who studies benthic sedimentary ecosystems, led the team that produced the book Discoveries of the Census of Marine Life, about the most important and dramatic findings of the CML new species and habitats, unexpected and epic migration routes and changing distribution patterns. The census revealed how diverse, surprising, still vastly unknown, and tenacious life is in the oceans.,He says How to distill thousands of scientific papers and dozens of books into a coherent story? The answer was to lock myself in the basement, shut off email, and read, read, read.
Kevin, Allocca,Why videos go viral,YouTube trends manager,about.me/KevinAllocca,,Writer and analyst Kevin Allocca works with YouTube Trends , a spot for tracking the latest viral videos -- and connecting to the communities that make the parodies, tributes and reply videos that circle the giant viral planets of the YouTube-iverse.,“I admit, I have a pretty unusual job.” — Kevin Allocca on socialtimes.comJeffrey, Kluger,The sibling bond,Senior Editor, TIME Magazine,time.com/author/jeffrey-kluger,,Jeffrey Kluger is a senior editor at TIME magazine, where he has worked since 1996. In 1994, he co-authored Lost Moon The Perilous Voyage of Apollo 13 , which was the basis for the Tom Hanks film Apollo 13 . His book about Jonas Salk and the Polio vaccine, Splendid Solution , was published in 2006. Three years later, he published Simplexity Why Simple Things Become Complex (and Why Complex Things Can Be Made Simple) . His latest book, The Sibling Effect , came out in 2011.,“Jeffrey Kluger integrates the latest research and brings his own fresh thinking to an ancient topic sibling relationships. He weaves his own sibling experiences into his rich, insightful text. As with all good storytellers, Kluger's stories are sad/happy and heartbreaking/glorious.” — Mary Pipher, author of Reviving Ophelia
Avi, Rubin,All your devices can be hacked,Professor, Computer Security Expert,AviRubin.com,,Along with running the Health and Medical Security Lab, Avi Rubin is also the technical director of the JHU Information Security Institute. From 1997 to 2002, Avi was a researcher in AT&T’s Secure Systems Department, where he focused on cryptography and network security. He is also the founder of Harbor Labs, which provides expert testimony and review in legal cases related to high tech security. Avi has authored several books related to electronic security, most recently Brave New Ballot , published in 2006.,“His explanation of the technological issues at the heart of electronic voting is clear, and his argument that votes need to be verifiable in order for the democratic process to be meaningful is so reasonable that it sounds almost revolutionary. ” — Publisher's Weekly
Tan, Le,My immigration story,Entrepreneur, visualcv.com/tanttle,,Tan Le is the co-founder and president of Emotiv. Before this, she headed a firm that worked on a new form of remote control that uses brainwaves to control digital devices and digital media . It's long been a dream to bypass the mechanical (mouse, keyboard, clicker) and have our digital devices respond directly to what we think. Emotiv's EPOC headset uses 16 sensors to listen to activity across the entire brain. Software learns what each user's brain activity looks like when one, for instance, imagines a left turn or a jump.,Le herself has an extraordinary story -- a refugee from Vietnam at age 4, she entered college at 16 and has since become a vital young leader in her home country of Australia.
Shlomo, Benartzi,Saving for tomorrow, tomorrow,Economist,www.anderson.ucla.edu/.../bena,,Shlomo Benartzi studies behavioral finance with a special interest in personal finance. He is co-founder of the Behavioral Finance Forum (www.behavioralfinanceforum.com), a collective of 40 prominent academics and 40 major financial institutions from around the globe. The Forum helps consumers make better financial decisions by fostering collaborative research efforts between academics and industry leaders.,Benartzi’s most significant research contribution is the development of Save More Tomorrow™ (SMarT), a behavioral prescription designed to help employees increase their savings rates gradually over time.
Shilo, Shiv Suleman,Using tech to enable dreaming,Artist, bonifisheii.blogspot.com,,,
Chris, Bliss,Comedy is translation,Writer, chrisbliss.com,,Chris Bliss is a national headline comedian, with credits including the Tonight Show and the Late Show with David Letterman , as well as an internationally renowned variety artist, opening for superstars from Eric Clapton to Michael Jackson.,In 2005, he founded MyBillofRights.org , with the mission of creating monuments and permanent displays of the Bill of Rights in civic spaces across America. The organization expects to dedicate America’s first monument celebrating the Bill of Rights at the Arizona Capitol Mall, in December 2012.
Neil, MacGregor,2600 years of history in one object,Director of The British Museum, britishmuseum.org,,Established by Act of Parliament in 1753 as a museum for the world (and free to enter, down to this day), the British Museum has built a near-encyclopedic collection of art and artifacts representing the sweep of human history across 2 million years. In his 2010 radio series A History of the World in 100 Objects (accompanied by a splendid book with the same title), director Neil MacGregor showed how the artifacts and items we collect are a powerful tool for sharing our shared human narrative. MacGregor has long been fascinated with the way museums can tell the world's story. At the British Museum, he's negotiated his way to mounting shows full of Chinese and Persian treasures, helping sometimes-prickly governments to share his mission of cultural togetherness. He was named Briton of the Year in 2008 by the Sunday Times, who said, He is a committed idealist who, in a world in which culture is increasingly presented as the acceptable face of politics, has pioneered a broader, more open, more peaceable way forward.,He says That’s what the museum is about giving people their place in things.”
Lucianne, Walkowicz,Look up for a change,Stellar astronomer, astro.berkeley.edu/~lucianne/,,Lucianne Walkowicz studies the inscrutable faces of the stars for clues to the inner workings of their hearts. She got her taste for astronomy as an undergrad at Johns Hopkins, testing detectors for the Hubble Space Telescope’s new camera (installed in 2002). She also learned to love the dark stellar denizens of our galaxy, the red dwarfs, which became the topic of her PhD dissertation at University of Washington. Nowadays, she works on NASA’s Kepler mission, studying starspots and the tempestuous tantrums of stellar flares to understand stellar magnetic fields. She is particularly interested in how the high energy radiation from stars influences the habitability of planets around alien suns. Lucianne is also a leader in the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, a new project that will scan the sky every night for 10 years to create a huge cosmic movie of our Universe.,“Walkowicz's project is also working to understand the nature of dark energy (We're going to find things we don't understand) ...” — David Rowan, Wired UK
Garth, Lenz,The true cost of oil,Photographer, Garthlenz.com,,Garth Lenz’s photographs capture the detailed reality of what happens when a pristine landscape is confronted by an industrial project. His work as a photojournalist has won him top awards at Pris de la Photographie Paris and the International Photography Awards. He is also a fellow of the International League of Conservation Photographers. His solo exhibition featuring the Alberta Tar Sands, “The True Cost of Oil” premiered in 2011.,“As important as his visual style is the content that Garth chooses to focus on, his understanding of complex environmental issues allows him to make powerfully relevant and important images.” — Melissa Ryan, Nature Conservancy Magazine
Paul, Conneally,Digital humanitarianism,Aid worker,www.itu.int ,,,Paul Conneally has worked as a journalist since 1988 in the print and broadcast media, primarily in the area of news reportage and documentaries that focus on socio-economic development and international politics. He worked with the International Committee of the Red Cross for 11 years working in communications, cooperation and operations in regions from North Caucasus and Central Asia to the Balkans, Afghanistan, Somalia, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Sudan and Israel & the Occupied Territories. He has also spent two and a half years as head of ICRC's donor reporting unit in Geneva.
Simon, Berrow,How do you save a shark you know nothing about?,Marine biologist,www.researchgate.net/profile/Simon_Berrow,,Born in Ireland, Simon Berrow has travelled the world's oceans studying albatrosses, seals, penguins, sharks, and more. A passionate scientist and lover of Ireland's natural heritage, he founded the Irish Whale and Dolphin Group and the Irish Basking Shark Study Group. He is also the inventor of Simon's shark slime sampling system -- a mop handle and oven cleaner -- which has proved to be the most effective way of collecting shark DNA for analysis.,The TEDxTalk was filmed at the Science Gallery in Dublin.
Lucien, Engelen,Crowdsource your health,Healthcare innovator,radboudreshapecenter.com/author/lucienengelen/,,,
Inara, George,Family Tree,Singer and songwriter, inarageorge.com,,Inara George is a singer and songwriter whose pure and lovely tone inhabits several solo records -- and has inspired collaborations with legendary songwriters and arrangers, including Van Dyke Parks and Mike Andrews. In 2010, as The Bird and the Bee, George and multi-instrumentalist Greg Kurstin released Interpreting the Masters Volume 1 A Tribute to Daryl Hall and John Oates , which, if you haven't heard, go hear it, it's amazing. Other projects include The Living Sisters, a three-part vocal group.,
Jenna, McCarthy,What you don't know about marriage,Writer, jennamccarthy.com,,Jenna McCarthy is the author of If It Was Easy They'd Call the Whole Damn Thing a Honeymoon Living With and Loving the TV-Addicted, Sex-Obsessed, Not-So-Handy Man You Married. Her past books include The Parent Trip From High Heels and Parties to Highchairs and Potties and Cheers to the New Mom/Cheers to the New Dad , as well as the upcoming companion books Big Rigs for Moms and Tea Parties for Dads .,“If Chelsea Handler and Dr. Phil had a love child, it would be Jenna McCarthy.” — Celia Rivenbark
Tyrone, Hayes + Penelope Jagessar Chaffer,The toxic baby,Biologist,www.toxicbaby.com/,,At the University of California, Berkeley, and in ponds around the world, professor Tyrone Hayes studies frogs and other amphibians. He's become an active critic of the farm chemical atrazine, which he's found to interfere with the development of amphibians' endocrine systems.,Hayes is the subject of the chidren's book The Frog Scientist , and lectures frequently. His work was recently covered in Mother Jones .
Keith, Nolan,Deaf in the military,Teacher,https//www.ted.com/speakers/keith_nolan,,Keith Nolan was told that he couldn’t enlist in the army because he was deaf -- but he didn’t take no for an answer. After he finally convinced a commander to let him audit ROTC classes, he proved himself a top student and earned his uniform. Although a standard military hearing test prevents him from enlisting, his continued fight has inspired many would-be soldiers with disabilities -- and a vigorous online campaign on his behalf.,
Drew, Dudley,Everyday leadership,Leadership educator,drewdudley.com/,,Drew Dudley’s interest in developing people’s leadership began when he was the Leadership Development coordinator at the University of Toronto, Scarborough. In 2010 he founded Nuance Leadership Development Services, a company that creates leadership curricula for communities, organizations and individuals -- a subject on which he also speaks widely.,
Erik, Johansson,Impossible photography,Photographer and retoucher,www.erikjohanssonphoto.com/,,Erik Johansson is a self-taught photograher who learned how to retouch photos to make impossible and extraordinary images. Growing up with a grandmother who painted and a penchant for escaping into the other worlds of video games, he naturally blended the two into a technique using computers to generate images that couldn't be captured by a camera.,“Who hasn’t wished to simply iron out a kink in one’s character? Or to punch one’s own face after making a mistake?” — Environmental Graffiti
Jack, Horner,Where are the baby dinosaurs?,Dinosaur digger,jackhorner.net/,,Paleontologist Jack Horner discovered the first dinosaur eggs in the Western Hemisphere, the first evidence of dinosaur colonial nesting, the first evidence of parental care among dinosaurs, and the first dinosaur embryos.,Horner's research covers a wide range of topics about dinosaurs, including their behavior, physiology, ecology and evolution. Due to struggles with the learning disability, dyslexia, Horner does not hold a formal college degree but was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Montana in 1986. Also in 1986 he was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship.
Sheikha, Al Mayassa,Globalizing the local, localizing the global,Founder, Doha Film Institute,www.qm.org.qa/en/her-excellency-sheikha-al-mayassa,,As chairperson of the Qatar Museums Authority (QMA), Her Excellency Sheikha Al Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani uses the rich history of her country to drive education and cross-cultural interaction today. The QMA’s flagship project is the Museum of Islamic Art, an institution built to serve as the world’s center for education and information on art in the Muslim world. According to H.E. Sheikha Al Mayassa’s vision, the museum will not only preserve and document the vast diversity of Islamic art, but also provide a welcoming place for the international community to learn more about an often-oversimplified culture.,“A lot of countries in the Arab world are very rich yet have a poor population. There's a lack of innovation. There's stagnation. Qatar is trying to become a role model. It has proven it can make a lot of changes in a short time. ” — Sheikha Al Mayassa, in Travel + Leisure, July 2007
Stephen, Coleman,The moral dangers of non-lethal weapons,Ethicist,www.stephencoleman.com/,,,
Neil, Burgess,How your brain tells you where you are,Neuroscientist,www.icn.ucl.ac.uk/nburgess/,,Neil Burgessis is deputy director of the Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience at University College London, where he investigates of the role of the hippocampus in spatial navigation and episodic memory. His research is directed at answering questions such as How are locations represented, stored and used in the brain? What processes and which parts of the brain are involved in remembering the spatial and temporal context of everyday events, and in finding one's way about?,To explore this space, he and his team use a range of methods for gathering data, including pioneering uses of virtual reality, as well as computational modelling and electrophysiological analysis of the function of hippocampal neurons in the rat, functional imaging of human navigation, and neuropsychological experiments on spatial and episodic memory. A parallel interest Investigating our human short-term memory for serial order, or how we know our 123s.
Nancy, Duarte,The secret structure of great talks,CEO, presentation designer, duarte.com,,Nancy Duarte is an expert in presentation design and principal of Duarte Design, where she has served as CEO for 21 years. Nancy speaks around the world, seeking to improve the power of public presentations. She is the author of Slideology The Art and Science of Creating Great Presentations as well as Resonate Present Visual Stories that Transform Audiences and the recent HBR Guide to Persuasive Presentations .,Watch Duarte's recent webinar on making presentations remotely >>
Aleph, Molinari,Let's bridge the digital divide!,Economist, techno-activist,www.oecd.org/..,,Economist Aleph Molinari is working to close the digital divide and empower people by providing access to technology education. In 2008, he founded Fundación Proacceso, and in 2009 launched the Learning and Innovation network, which uses community centers to educate under-served communities about different technologies and tools. To date, the network has graduated 28,000 users through 42 educational centers throughout Mexico.,
Mike, deGruy,Hooked by an octopus,Filmmaker, MikedeGruy.com,,Mike deGruy was a graduate student in marine biology when he first picked up a 16mm film camera. Thirty-plus years on, his company, the Film Crew Inc., travels the oceans making underwater films for the BBC, PBS, National Geographic and Discovery Channel. He dived beneath both poles and visited the hydrothermal vents in both the Atlantic and the Pacific. And as you can imagine, he collected many stories along the way.,An accomplished diver and underwater cinematographer, deGruy also became a go-to host and expedition member on shows like the recent Mysteries of the Shark Coast with Céline Cousteau and Richard Fitzpatrick. (He was a regular on Shark Week -- and a shark attack survivor himelf.) But his first passion was cephalopods, and in fact deGruy and his team were the first to film two rarely seen cephalopods, the nautilus and the vampire squid , in their home ocean.
Danny, Hillis,Back to the future (of 1994),Computer theorist, AppliedMinds.com,,Danny Hillis is an inventor, scientist, author and engineer. While completing his doctorate at MIT, he pioneered the concept of parallel computers that is now the basis for most supercomputers, as well as the RAID array. He holds over 100 US patents, covering parallel computers, disk arrays, forgery prevention methods, and various electronic and mechanical devices, and has recently been working on problems in medicine as well. He is also the designer of a 10,000-year mechanical clock, and he gave a TED Talk in 1994 that is practically prophetic. Throughout his career, Hillis has worked at places like Disney and now Applied Minds , always looking for the next fascinating problem.,“We're at a point in time which is analogous to when single-celled organisms were turning into multi-celled organisms. So we're the amoebas.” — Danny Hillis
Erica, Frenkel,The universal anesthesia machine,Medical technologist,www.gradianhealth.org/company/,,Erica Frenkel helps lead Gradian Health Systems , a social enterprise enabling safe surgery through innovative anesthesia technology. She has been a Peace Corps volunteer, managed the Global Media AIDS Initiative for the Kaiser Family Foundation and helped shape public health initiatives as a consultant for the Clinton Foundation, the Liberian Ministry of Health, Merck Vaccines, and the Wellcome Trust.,
Shawn, Achor,The happy secret to better work,Psychologist,beforehappiness.com/,,Shawn Achor is the winner of over a dozen distinguished teaching awards at Harvard University, where he delivered lectures on positive psychology in the most popular class at Harvard. He is the CEO of Good Think Inc., a Cambridge-based consulting firm which researches positive outliers -- people who are well above average -- to understand where human potential, success and happiness intersect. Based on his research and 12 years of experience at Harvard, he clearly and humorously describes to organizations how to increase happiness and meaning, raise success rates and profitability, and create positive transformations that ripple into more successful cultures. He is also the author of The Happiness Advantage .,
Bill, Doyle,Treating cancer with electric fields,Engineer, Novocure.com,,Bill Doyle is the executive chair of Novocure, a company commercializing a new therapeutic modality for solid tumors using low-intensity electric fields. Recently, Novocure received FDA approval for its first indication, recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM), the most virulent form of brain cancer, it is now conducting additional clinical trials.,In 2002, Doyle co-founded medical device venture firm WFD Ventures, which provides financing and business-building expertise to medical device companies with the potential to make a major impact on patient care, working with entrepreneurs, doctors and scientists to improve medical outcomes and maximize the potential of their innovations.
Peter, van Uhm,Why I chose a gun,General,https//www.ted.com/speakers/peter_van_uhm,,General Petrus J.M. Peter van Uhm is a four-star general in the Royal Netherlands Army and the current Chief of the Netherlands Defence Staff. He has had an outstanding carrer over four decades in the Dutch military.,In the Netherlands, he is know from his personal tragedy. On 18 April 2008, one day after Van Uhm was appointed Chief Defence Staff, his son First Lieutenant Dennis van Uhm was killed in a roadside bombing in Uruzgan. Van Uhm’s incredibly dignified and human response has astounded many.
Mick, Mountz,What happens inside those massive warehouses?,CEO, Kiva Systems,Kivasystems.com,,With the growing popularity of online shopping, Mick Mountz and his company are finding ways to make picking, packing and shipping those purchases a flexible and inexpensive process. He first began working on this hidden challenge while at Webvan, an online grocer. In 2003, he took his experience there and founded Kiva systems, a company whose innovative solutions have led to it being listed by Inc. as one of the fastest growing companies.,In March 2012, Kiva was acquired by Amazon for $775 million .
Bjarke, Ingels,Hedonistic sustainability,Architect,www.big.dk/,,Bjarke Ingels is principal of BIG , based in Copenhagen. An alumnus of Rem Koolhaas' OMA practice, Ingels takes a similar approach experimenting with pure space, but never losing sight of the building as a solution to a real-world problem . His manifesto Yes Is More takes the form of a giant cartoon strip, 130 meters long, that reminds people to keep thinking big -- to see all our modern problems as challenges that inspire us. (The manifesto is now available in comic-book form .),His deeply-thought-out and often rather large works -- including several skyscrapers and mixed-use projects in a developing section of Copenhagen, plus a project for a new commercial harbor-island -- work to bring coherence to the urban fabric and to help their occupants and users lead better lives . His most famous works include the Stavanger Concert House, Tallinn’s city hall and the VM Houses. He recently won a competition to design Copenhagen’s waste-to-energy plant with a design that will place a ski slope on top of the structure.
Gayle, Tzemach Lemmon,Women entrepreneurs, example not exception,Reporter,gaylelemmon.com,,Gayle Tzemach Lemmon never set out to write about women entrepreneurs. After leaving ABC News for MBA study at Harvard, she was simply looking for a great -- and underreported -- economics story. What she found was women entrepreneurs in some of the toughest business environments creating jobs against daunting obstacles. Since then her writing on entrepreneurship has been published by the International Herald Tribune and Financial Times along with the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation.,Now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Lemmon continues to travel the world reporting on economic and development issues with a focus on women. She is the author of Ashley's War The Untold Story of a Team of Women Soldiers on the Special Ops Battlefield (2014), as well as the best seller The Dressmaker of Khair Khana (2011) about a young entrepreneur who supported her community under the Taliban.
Brian, Goldman,Doctors make mistakes. Can we talk about that?,Physician, broadcaster,doctorbriangoldman.com/,,Brian Goldman is an emergency room physician who has worked at Mount Sinai Hospital in downtown Toronto for more than 20 years. He is also a prominent medical journalist and the host of CBC Radio’s White Coat, Black Art. In Dr. Goldman’s first book, The Night Shift , published in 2010, he shares his experiences of working through the witching hours at Mount Sinai, as well as at the other hospitals where he has spent his long career.,
Diana, Nyad,Extreme swimming with the world's most dangerous jellyfish,Journalist, swimmer, diananyad.com,,For ten years (1969-1979), Diana Nyad was known as the greatest long-distance swimmer in the world. In 1979, she stroked the then-longest swim in history, making the 102.5-mile journey from the island of Bimini (Bahamas) to Florida. She also broke numerous world records, including what had been a 50-year mark for circling Manhattan Island, setting the new time of 7 hrs 57 min. She is a member of the National Women’s Hall of Fame and the International Swimming Hall of Fame.,At age 60, having not swum a stroke in decades, she began planning for her white whale of distance swims the 110-mile ocean crossing between Cuba and Florida. She'd tried it once, in her 20s, and severe jellyfish attacks had defeated her then. But now, with a strong team and a new commitment to her vision, she stepped back into the salt. She spoke about this second attempt at TEDMED 2011 . And at TEDWomen 2013, in December, she talks about how it feels to have finally done it.
Lisa,Harouni,A primer on 3D printing,3D printing entrepreneur,https//www.ted.com/speakers/lisa_harouni,,Lisa Harouni is the co-founder and CEO of Digital Forming, a company that works on the software side of 3D printing -- the design tools needed to run the new generaion of 3D printing processes. She has a background in economics, and worked in the G7 Economics team at Deutsche Bank AG before moving over to the consumer products business.,“Lisa Harouni is in the vanguard of a wave of entrepreneurs who want to make it easy for anyone to design and create bespoke products at the click of a button.” — Wired UK
Julian,Baggini,Is there a real you?,Philosopher, microphilosophy.net,,“While leaving the ego in pieces, he gives your mind a thorough workout. ” — Intelligent Life Magazine,
Bilal,Bomani,Plant fuels that could power a jet,NASA scientist,www.skepticalscience.com/bilal-boman,,As a senior NASA scientist, Bilal Bomani focuses on developing new and truly sustainable biofuels. After receiving two masters degrees from Cleveland State University, he earned his PhD in computer engineering from Case Western University. He currently runs the Greenlab Research Facility in Cleveland, Ohio, where he works on creating biofuels that don’t use freshwater, and meet his definition of green sustainable, renewable and alternative.,
Scott,Rickard,The beautiful math behind the ugliest music,Mathematician,scottrickard.brandyourself.com/,,Scott Rickard is a professor at University College Dublin. His interest in both music and math led him to try and solve an interesting math problem a musical score with no pattern. He has degrees in Mathematics, Computer Science, and Electrical Engineering from MIT, and MA and PhD degrees in Applied and Computational Mathematics from Princeton.,At University College Dublin, he founded the Complex & Adaptive Systems Laboratory , where biologists, geologists, mathematicians, computer scientists, social scientists and economists work on problems that matter to people. He is also the founder of ScienceWithMe! , an online community dedicated to engaging youth through science and math.
Sheena,Iyengar,How to make choosing easier,Psycho-economist,sheenaiyengar.com/,,We all think we're good at making choices, many of us even enjoy making them. Sheena Iyengar looks deeply at choosing and has discovered many surprising things about it. For instance, her famous jam study, done while she was a grad student, quantified a counterintuitive truth about decisionmaking -- that when we're presented with too many choices, like 24 varieties of jam, we tend not to choose anything at all. (This and subsequent, equally ingenious experiments have provided rich material for Malcolm Gladwell and other pop chroniclers of business and the human psyche.),Iyengar's research has been informing business and consumer-goods marketing since the 1990s. But she and her team at the Columbia Business School throw a much broader net. Her analysis touches, for example, on the medical decisionmaking that might lead up to choosing physician-assisted suicide, on the drawbacks of providing too many choices and options in social-welfare programs, and on the cultural and geographical underpinning of choice. Her book The Art of Choosing shares her research in an accessible and charming story that draws examples from her own life.
Clay,Shirky,Why SOPA is a bad idea,Social Media Theorist, Shirky.com,,Clay Shirky's work focuses on the rising usefulness of networks -- using decentralized technologies such as peer-to-peer sharing, wireless, software for social creation, and open-source development. New technologies are enabling new kinds of cooperative structures to flourish as a way of getting things done in business, science, the arts and elsewhere, as an alternative to centralized and institutional structures, which he sees as self-limiting. In his writings and speeches he has argued that a group is its own worst enemy.,Shirky is an adjunct professor in New York University?s graduate Interactive Telecommunications Program , where he teaches a course named “ Social Weather .” He?s the author of several books. This spring at the TED headquarters in New York, he gave an impassioned talk against SOPA/PIPA that saw 1 million views in 48 hours.
Mikko,Hypponen,Three types of online attack,Cybersecurity expert, mikko.hypponen.com,,The chief research officer at F-Secure Corporation in Finland, Mikko Hypponen has led his team through some of the largest computer virus outbreaks in history. His team took down the world-wide network used by the Sobig.F worm. He was the first to warn the world about the Sasser outbreak, and he has done classified briefings on the operation of the Stuxnet worm -- a hugely complex worm designed to sabotage Iranian nuclear enrichment facilities. As a few hundred million more Internet users join the web from India and China and elsewhere, and as governments and corporations become more sophisticated at using viruses as weapons, Hypponen asks, what's next? Who will be at the front defending the world’s networks from malicious software? He says It's more than unsettling to realize there are large companies out there developing backdoors, exploits and trojans.,Even more unsettling revelations this year that the United States' NSA is conducting widespread digital surveillance of both US citizens and anyone whose data passes through a US entity, and that it has actively sabotaged encryption algorithms. Hypponen has become one of the most outspoken critics of the agency's programs and asks us all Why are we so willing to hand over digital privacy?
Alain,de,Atheism 2.0,Philosopher,alaindebotton.com,,It started in 1997, when Alain de Botton turned away from writing novels and instead wrote a touching extended essay titled How Proust Can Change Your Life , which became an unlikely blockbuster in the self-helpcategory. His subsequent books take on some of the fundamental worries of modern life (am I happy? where exactly do I stand?), informed by his deep reading in philosophy and by a novelist's eye for small, perfect moments. His newest book is The Pleasures and Sorrows of Work . In 2008, de Botton helped start the School of Life in London, a social enterprise determined to make learning and therapy relevant in today's uptight culture. His goal is (through any of his mediums) to help clients learn how to live wisely and well.,“He writes with an elegance philosophers might envy ... We're painlessly instructed while we read for fun.” — SF Chronicle
Sonaar,Luthra,Meet the Water Canary,,wethedata.org/about/who/sonaarluthra/,,Sonaar Luthra was a writer and educator when he enrolled in NYU's famed Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) -- a breeding ground for cross-disciplinary thinking. He tells the TED Blog what happened next,I wanted to come up with some way of becoming what I was calling an 'urban planner for the global village.' And ... I fell in love with circuitry and with making tangible objects that had real functionality. Next thing I knew, I found myself in a class called Design for UNICEF, taught by Clay Shirky in association with UNICEF’s Innovations Lab.
Charles,Hazlewood,The debut of the British Paraorchestra,Conductor, charleshazlewood.com,,Charles Hazlewood's fresh presentations of classical music shake up the traditional settings of the form -- in one performance he’ll engage in a conversation with the audience, while in another he’ll blend film or sculpture into a piece -- but his goal is always the same exposing the deep, always-modern joy of the classics. He's a familiar face on British TV, notably in the 2009 series The Birth of British Music on BBC2. He conducts the BBC Orchestras and guest-conducts orchestras around the world. Together with Mark Dornford-May, he founded a lyric-theatre company in South Africa called Dimpho Di Kopane (which means combined talents) after auditioning in the townships and villages of South Africa. Of the 40 members, only three had professional training. They debuted with Bizet's Carmen , which was later transposed into a movie version called U-Carmen eKhayelitsha , spoken and sung in Xhosa, that was honored at the Berlin Flim Festival. He regularly involves children in his projects and curates his own music festival, Play the Field, on his farm in Somerset. His latest project the ParaOrchestra .,He says I have loads of issues with the way classical music is presented. It has been too reverential, too 'high art' -- if you're not in the club, they're not going to let you join. It's like The Turin Shroud don't touch it because it might fall apart.
Kirk,Sorensen,Thorium, an alternative nuclear fuel,Engineer, Nuclear Technologist, Flibe-energy.com,,Kirk Sorensen began his work with thorium while working as an aerospace engineer at NASA. In 2010, he left NASA to work as the chief nuclear technologist at Teledyne Brown Engineering. In 2011, he founded Flibe, a company focused on developing modular thorium reactors.,
Morley,,Women of Hope,Singer-songwriter, morleymusic.org,,Morley’s warm and soulful voice often gets her compared to Annie Lennox and Roberta Flack. And she uses that gorgeous voice as an instrument of change. Using music to facilitate dialogue, she works with teenagers from domestic and international con?ict zones, as well as organizations such as Face to Face/Faith to Faith, the Door, the Lower East Side Girls Club, Code Pink, and the Fortune Society (a program that facilitates reentry into society from prison), to name a few. Her music has been used in an array of ?lms, including Burma and the Media Amplifying Voices for Democracy .,Morley's next CD, Undivided , will be available in spring 2012, until then, check out her albums Seen, Days Like These, and sunmachine ... She has collaborated and toured with artists such as Angélique Kidjo, Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon, Toshi Reagon, Dave Matthews, Raul Midón, Amadou et Mariam and Queen Latifah.
Drew,Berry,Animations of unseeable biology,Biomedical animator,www.wehi.edu.au/.../.,,Drew Berry is a biomedical animator whose scientifically accurate and aesthetically rich visualisations reveal the microscopic world inside our bodies to a wide range of audiences. His animations have exhibited at venues such as the Guggenheim Museum, Museum of Modern Art (New York), the Royal Institute of Great Britain and the University of Geneva. In 2010 he received a MacArthur Fellowship Genius Award.,
Jonas,Gahr,In defense of dialogue,Foreign Minister of Norway,www.eatforum.org/person/jonas-gahr-store/,,Norway sits on the edge of the strategically important North Atlantic and is blessed with oil, gas and marine resources. Its economy is open and busy, its social programs generous. As Minister of Foreign Affairs , Jonas Gahr Støre's job is to represent Norway in the international community and work to preserve the nation's peace and stability -- and to help create a modern multicultural society that welcomes immigrants and new traditions. This is not an abstract question after the shocking violence of 2011's terrorist attack on Norway.,Støre's approach to this task We must talk.
Lauren,Hodge,,Award-winning teenage science in action,Science fair winner,www.thediscordtrilogy.com/,,Lauren Hodge has been competing in science fair projects since she was 7 years old. For her latest project, she investigated the formation of carcinogens in different methods of preparing chicken -- and found a surprising result. That work won first prize in the Google Science Fair's age 13-14 category.,
Tyler,Cowen,Be suspicious of simple stories,Economist,tylercowensethnicdiningguide.com/,,Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University, and partners with Alex Tabarrok to write the economics blog Marginal Revolution , where he hunts for clues to whatever is coming next, in the space where economics and culture entwine. His outlook is fairly libertarian, but it's not ivory-tower -- in fact, he's been accused of  cute-o-nomics  for daring to use economic models to explain real-world problems instead of theoretical abstractions. His latest book is a short ebook called The Great Stagnation How America Ate All the Low-Hanging Fruit of Modern History, Got Sick, and Will (Eventually) Feel Better . In it, he suggests that while the days of easy growth are probably over for the US, it's probably not in a death spiral just yet. Cowen is also a passionate foodie (check out his blog Tyler Cowen's Ethnic Dining Guide ), in fact, his next book is An Economist Gets Lunch New Rules for Everyday Foodies .,Find a transcript for Tyler Cowen's TEDxMidAtlantic talk on lesswrong.com >>
Michelle,Borkin,Can astronomers help doctors?,physicist, Harvard.edu,,Michelle Borkin’s 3-D imaging work uses tools from astronomy to help doctors visualize patients’ hearts. In 2008, she began PhD work at the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Science. She is a 2009 TED Fellow, and has been granted a National Science Foundation research fellowship.,
Nate,Garvis,Change our culture, change our world,Civic thought leader,nakedcivics.com/nategarvis/,,Nate Garvis encourages communities to create a better future through all available institutional tools. He was the V.P. of government affairs and the senior public affairs officer for Target. In 2010 he founded Naked Civics, a website dedicated to civic design and working above politics to move our society forward.,
Sebastian,Wernicke,1000 TEDTalks, 6 words,Statistics whiz,https//www.ted.com/speakers/sebastian_wernicke,,Currently an Engagement Manager at Oliver Wyman, Sebastian Wernicke originally studied bioinformatics at Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena. During his time in academia, he devised an algorithm for analyzing biological networks that now aids researchers in dealing with their innate complexity.,Before his career in statistics began, Wernicke worked stints as both a paramedic and successful short animated filmmaker. He's also the author of the TEDPad app, an irreverent tool for creating an infinite number of amazing and really bad and mostly completely meaningless talks. He's the author of the statistically authoritative and yet completely ridiculous  How to Give the Perfect TEDTalk. 
Paddy,Ashdown,The global power shift,Diplomat,www.imdb.com/name/nm1968368,,Throughout his career, Paddy Ashdown has moved across the international stage. He served as a Royal Marine and an intelligence officer in MI6, the Secret Intelligence Service of the United Kingdom, before becoming a member of Parlaiment. In 1988 he became the first leader of the newly formed Liberal Democrat party. After leaving Parlaiment he served as the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina.,
Jane,Fonda,Life's third act,Actor and activist,www.janefonda.com,,Jane Fonda is an actor, author, producer and activist supporting environmental issues, peace and female empowerment. She founded the Georgia Campaign for Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention, and established the Jane Fonda Center for Adolescent Reproductive Health at Emory. She cofounded the Women’s Media Center, and sits on the board of V-Day, a global effort to stop violence against women and girls.,Fonda's remarkable screen and stage career includes two Best Actress Oscars, an Emmy, a Tony Award nomination and an Honorary Palme d’Or from the Cannes Film Festival. Offstage, she revolutionized the fitness industry in the 1980s with Jane Fonda’s Workout — the all-time top-grossing home video. She has written a best-selling memoir, My Life So Far , and Prime Time , a comprehensive guide to living life to the fullest.
AJ,Jacobs,How healthy living nearly killed me,Author,ajjacobs.com,,AJ Jacobs' writings stand at the intersection of philosophy, Gonzo journalism and performance art. Stubbornly curious and slyly perceptive, he takes immersive learning to its irrational and profoundly amusing extreme -- extracting wisdom and meaning after long stints as a self-styled guinea pig. For his widely circulated Esquire article  My Outsourced Life , he explored the phenomenon of outsourcing by hiring a team in Bangalore to take care of every part of his life -- from reading his emails to arguing with his wife to reading bedtime stories to his own son. A previous article,  I Think You're Fat , chronicled a brief, cringe-inducing attempt to live his life in Radical Honesty, telling all the truth, all the time.,Jacobs is author of The Know-It-All , which documents the year he spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z, uncovering both funny and surprising factoids but also poignant insight into history and human nature. In 2007 he released The Year of Living Biblically , in which he attempted to follow every single rule in the Bible as literally as possible for an entire year. His recent book My Life as an Experiment is a collection of numerous personal experiments. including living according to George Washington's rules of conduct, outsourcing every single task to India, and posing as a woman on an online dating site.
Alberto,Cairo,There are no scraps of men,Physiotherapist,www.thefunctionalart.com/,,Alberto Cairo is the head of the ICRC's orthopedic program in Afghanistan. He's spent the past two decades in this war-ravaged nation -- far from his native Italy -- helping an estimated 100,000 Afghan landmine and accident victims learn to find the strength within themselves to not only walk, but also to hope, again. In a country where the disabled are generally given pity but no rights, Alberto found a way -- through micro-loans, positive discrimination schemes and home schooling -- to give tens of thousands of disabled Afghans a job and a sense of dignity and pride. About him, John F. Burns wrote in the New York Times  Afghans of all ethnic and political stripes, even the Taliban, seem likely to count Alberto Cairo as one foreigner who left the country better than he found it.,His diary, Storie da Kabul,  based on a series of stories he wrote for Italy's La Repubblica , has been published in Italian and in French.
Karen,Tse,How to stop torture,Anti-torture activist, ibj.org,,A former public defender, Karen Tse developed an interest in the intersection of criminal law and human rights after observing Southeast Asian refugees held in a local prison without trial, often tortured to obtain confessions. In 1994, she moved to Cambodia to train the country's first core group of public defenders. Under the auspices of the UN, she trained judges and prosecutors, and established the first arraignment court in Cambodia. In 2000, Tse founded International Bridges to Justice to help create systemic change in criminal justice and promote basic rights of legal representation for defendants on the ground. Her foundation complements the work of witness groups, who do the equally vital work of advocacy, reports, photographs. Tse's group helps governments build new systems that respect individual rights. In IBJ's first years, she negotiated groundbreaking measures in judicial reform with the Chinese, Vietnamese and Cambodian governments. It now works in sixteen countries, including Rwanda, Burundi and India.,She says I believe it is possible to end torture in my lifetime.
Daniel,Goldstein,The battle between your present and future self,Behavioral economist, dangoldstein.com,,Daniel Goldstein studies decision-making -- especially how humans make economic and social decisions over the course of our lives, and how we can give ourselves the right incentives, reminders, and rules of thumb to make long-term smart choices rather than short-term fun choices. He runs the blog Decision Science News . He's a Principal Research Scientist at Yahoo! Research, on leave from a post at the London Business School.,“Goldstein is part of a really fascinating band of psychologists interested in heuristics -- that is, mental shortcuts that have the effect of helping us better navigate the world.” — Malcolm Gladwell
Sheila,Nirenberg,A prosthetic eye to treat blindness,Neuroscientist,physiology.med.cornell.edu/faculty/nirenberg/lab/,,Sheila Nirenberg is a neuroscientist/professor at Weill Medical College of Cornell University, where she studies neural coding – that is, how the brain takes information from the outside world and encodes it in patterns of electrical activity. The idea is to be able to decode the activity, to look at a pattern of electrical pulses and know what an animal is seeing or thinking or feeling. Recently, she’s been using this work to develop new kinds of prosthetic devices, particularly ones for treating blindness.,
Antonio,Damasio,The quest to understand consciousness,Neuroscientist,bigthink.com/experts/antoniodamasio,,Antonio Damasio is a leader in understanding the biological origin of consciousness. He also argues that emotions, far from being barriers to it, are a crucial component of decision-making. He is founder and director of the USC Brain and Creativity Institute, which draws on partners across academic disciplines to use the explosion of new neuroscience results to tackle issues from mental health to societal and global change. Damasio is the author of Self Comes to Mind Constructing the Conscious Brain , which was adapted into a musical composition performed by Yo-Yo Ma at the American Museum of Natural History.,“A mind is so closely shaped by the body and destined to serve it that only one mind could possibly arise in it. No body, never mind.” — Antonio Damasio in The Feeling of What Happens
Thomas,Pogge,Medicine for the 99 percent,Philosopher,thomaspogge.com/,,Originally from Germany, Thomas Pogge received a PhD in philosophy from Harvard in 1983. Since then, he has taught philosophy, political science, and ethics at universities around the world. His 2002 book, World Poverty and Human Rights , offers proposals on how to achieve global economic equality. In 2008, he co-authored The Health Impact Fund, which lays out the plan to make life-saving medicines accessible for everyone. He is currently Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale.,“If only every living in affluent nations were to read World Poverty and Human Rights! Pogge…compels us to acknowledge that the existing global economic order is ethically indefensible.” — Professor Peter Singer, University Center for Human Values, Princeton University
Roger,Doiron,My subversive (garden) plot,Gardening activist, kitchengardeners.org,,Roger Doiron is dedicated to helping individuals grow their own food. He is the founder of Kitchen Gardeners International -- a network of 20,000 individuals in 100 countries. In 2008, he started the Eat the View campaign, a successful bid to get the White House to plant a kitchen garden--which was planted (by none other the First Lady) in March, 2009.,
Ramona,Pierson,An unexpected place of healing,Education innovator,https//about.declara.com/,,Ramona Pierson first built careers in aviation, neuropsychology and software development. While studying and examining and learning the details of such diverse disciplines, she became interested in the act of learning itself. She volunteered in a San Francisco school while working full-time in Silicon Valley and, just like that, a fourth career was born.,Pierson completed a master’s degree in education in California, then headed north to take the reins of the education technology department for Seattle Public Schools. She combined her passions and expertise to create software that, in a nutshell, helps teachers teach better. In 2007, Ramona launched a private company with the same goal. SynapticMash Inc. was launched to revolutionize the learning management and assessment systems in education.
Homaro,Cantu,Cooking as alchemy,Chef,motorestaurant.com,,You could call Homaro Cantu a chef -- or an inventor of futuristic food delivery systems. A graduate of Le Cordon Bleu in Portland, Oregon, he worked in Charlie Trotter’s restaurant in Chicago, where he rose to the position of sous chef, then left to found Moto, a path-breaking restaurant with a molecular gastronomy approach. Moto puts Cantu’s concepts and creations into practice by melding food with science, technology and art. Michael Eisner once described Cantu as the most revolutionary person in food since Ray Kroc.,Through his company Cantu Designs, Chef Cantu filed numerous patent applications covering dining implements, cookware, printed food and hoped to develop his inventions for commercial, humanitarian and aerospace applications. In 2013 he released The Miracle Berry Diet Cookbook to imagine uses for the flavor-tripping miracle fruit. As he said Any idea's a great idea as long as it tastes great. Cantu passed away in April 2015.
Pavan,Sukhdev,Put a value on nature!,Environmental economist, pavansukhdev.com,,In 2008, Pavan Sukhdev took a sabbatical from Deutsche Bank, where he'd worked for fifteen years, to write up two massive and convincing reports on the green economy. For UNEP, his Green Economy Report synthesized years of research to show, with real numbers, that environmentally sound development is not a bar to growth but rather a new engine for growing wealth and creating employment in the face of persistent poverty. The groundbreaking TEEB (formally “The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity”) report counts the global economic benefits of biodiversity. It encourages countries to develop and publish Natural capital accounts tracking the value of plants, animal, water and other natural wealth alongside traditional financial measures -- in the hope of changing how decisions are made to take into account damage or preservation of biodiversity.,Sukhdev is the current McCluskey Fellow at Yale University where he leads the TEEB@YALE graduate seminar . Sukhdev chairs the Global Agenda Council on Biodiversity and Ecosystems for the World Economic Forum, and was the Special Advisor and Head of UNEP’s Green Economy Initiative.
Quyen,Nguyen,Color-coded surgery,Surgeon, drnguyen.ucsd.edu,,Dr. Quyen Nguyen’s research (working with Roger Tsien, Nobel Laureate in Chemistry) is focused on the development of fluorescently labeled probes for molecular navigation during surgery. Their first collaborative effort yielded a “smart” probe that makes tumors margins fluoresce, or “glow” and thus easier for surgeons to see and remove accurately during surgery. Their most recent joint effort resulted in another type of probe that can make nerves “glow” during surgery, thus helping surgeons repair injured nerves and avoid inadvertent injury.,She is a professor of surgery and director of the Facial Nerve Clinic at the University of California, San Diego.
Monika,Bulaj,The hidden light of Afghanistan,Photographer, monikabulaj.com,,Monika Bulaj is a photographer and writer who explores -- in Asia, Africa, Latin America and Eastern Europe -- the dim areas of monotheism, where the sacred can transcend borders Bonfires, dances, cults of the dead, possession rites. She describes outskirts and deserts, frontiers and megalopolis. And the world of the last ones nomads, farmers, immigrants, outcasts, untouchables and impure.,Her photos and reportaging have been published by GEO, National Geographic (Italy), La Repubblica, periodicals by Gruppo Espresso and Rcs, Courrier International, Gazeta Wyborcza (Poland), Internazionale, Freundin, Teatr (Poland) and other international magazines. She has displayed more than 50 personal exibitions in Italy, Germany, Ungheria, Bulgaria, Egypt.
David,Damberger,What happens when an NGO admits failure,Engineer, Social Entrepreneur,Interesting admittingfailure.com,,David got his start with Engineers without Borders when he founded the organization's Calgary chapter. He then worked for four years as the Engineers without Border's director of Southern African programs, consulting with governments and NGOs on agriculture, sanitation and development. In 2009, he co-founded Ethical Ocean, an online retail company focused on ethical and fair-trade goods.,
Klaus,Stadlmann,The world's smallest 3D printer,Engineer,startupweek2011.com,,Klaus Stadlmann graduated from the Technical University of Vienna with a degree in Industrial Engineering. While pursuing his PhD at the Institute of Material Sciences and Technologies at Vienna's Technical University, Klaus led the project to develop the world's smallest 3D printer.,
Stefon,Harris,There are no mistakes on the bandstand,Jazz vibraphonist, stefonharris.com,,Stefon Harris' passionate artistry, energetic stage presence, and astonishing virtuosity have propelled him into the forefront of hte current jazz scene. Widely recognized and lauded by both his peers and jazz critics, Harris is committed to exploring the rich potential of jazz composition and blazing trails on the vibraphone.,His TEDTalk was performed with Jamire Williams on drums, Burniss Travis on bass, and Christian Sands on piano.
Yoav,Medan,Ultrasound surgery — healing without cuts,Medical inventor, InSightec.com,,Yoav Medan is the Chief Systems Architect at InSightec Ltd. in Israel, where he works on MRI-guided guided focused ultrasound technology. Before this, he spent 17 years in research and management at the IBM Research Division and was elected to the IBM Academy of Technology. Medan has taught at the EE department at the Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, in addition to serving as a lecturer for Avionic Systems at the Aeronautical Engineering faculty, and mentors young enterpreneurs as part of the Technion Alumni Technion for Life program. He plans a 2012 sabbatical as an associate professor at the BioMedical Engineering department of the Technion and its Autonomous Systems Program.,Medan is also the inventor of the QR-code enabled tombstone. Read Adam Ostrow's Q&A with Yoav Medan at TEDGlobal >>
Cheryl,Hayashi,The magnificence of spider silk,Spider silk scientist,biology.ucr.edu/people/.../Hayashi.ht...,,Biologist Cheryl Hayashi is fascinated with spiders and their silks, and for good reason. Made of a mix of proteins, spider silks come in thousands of variations, there are over 40,000 species of spiders, with many spiders capable of producing half a dozen types. Some silks have the tensile strength of steel -- and often are much tougher -- while remaining light as air and extremely supple. And spiders use their silk in diverse ways to make their homes and trap their food, to travel, to court and to protect their eggs. In her lab at UC Riverside , Hayashi explores spider silk’s genetic makeup, evolution and unique biomechanics (winning a MacArthur “genius grant for it in 2007). Her work blurs the boundary between biology and materials science, looking for the molecular basis of this wondrous material and exploring how humans might learn from it. Hayashi's work may inspire new biomimetic materials for a huge variety of uses, from biodegradable fishing lines and sutures to superstrong ropes and armor cloth.,“Spiders are my inspiration. I'm always learning something new from them, which is what keeps my research going” — Cheryl Hayashi
Luis,von,Massive-scale online collaboration,Computer scientist,Duolingo.com,,Louis von Ahn is an associate professor of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, and he's at the forefront of the crowdsourcing craze. His work takes advantage of the evergrowing Web-connected population to acheive collaboration in unprecedented numbers. His projects aim to leverage the crowd for human good. His company reCAPTCHA, sold to Google in 2009, digitizes human knowledge (books), one word at a time. His new project is Duolingo, which aims to get 100 million people translating the Web in every major language.,
Srdja,Popovic,How to topple a dictator,Organizer,www.canvasopedia.org/index.php/srdja-popovic,,Srdja Popovic was one of the founders and key organizers of the Serbian nonviolent resistance group Otpor! Otpor!’s campaign to unseat Serbian president Slobodan Milosovic found success in October 2000 when hundreds of thousands of protestors converged upon and took over the Serbian Parliament, effectively ending Milosevic’s rule. After the revolution, Popovic served a term as a member of the Serbian National Assembly 2000-2003.,In 2003, Popovic and other ex-Otpor! activists started the nonprofit educational institution the Centre for Applied Nonviolent Action and Strategies (CANVAS) ( www.canvasopedia.org ). CANVAS has worked with people from 37 countries, including Zimbabwe, Burma, Iran and Venezuela, spreading knowledge on nonviolent strategies and tactics that was used by the Serbian pro-democracy movement to other non-democratic countries. CANVAS has worked with the activists responsible for successful movements such as the Georgian “Rose Revolution” of 2003 and the Ukrainian “Orange Revolution” of 2004-2005. It also transferred knowledge to Lebanese activists in 2004 to address the crisis after the assassination of Prime Minister Harriri, and assisted participants in the Maldives’ revolution in 2008. Recently CANVAS has worked with April 6th, a key group in the Egyptian nonviolent uprising, as well as other groups from the Middle East.
Sarah,Kay,How many lives can you live?,Poet, kaysarahsera.com,,Plenty of 14-year-old girls write poetry. But few hide under the bar of the famous Bowery Poetry Club in Manhattan’s East Village absorbing the talents of New York’s most exciting poets. Not only did Sarah Kay do that -- she also had the guts to take its stage and hold her own against performers at least a decade her senior. Her talent for weaving words into poignant, funny, and powerful performances paid off.,Sarah holds a Masters degree in the art of teaching from Brown University and an honorary doctorate in humane letters from Grinnell College. Her first book, B , was ranked the number one poetry book on Amazon.com. Her second book, No Matter the Wreckage , is available from Write Bloody Publishing.
Leslie,Dodson,Don't misrepresent Africa,Reporter, lesliedodson.com,,Leslie Dodson has reported throughout the world for Reuters, NBC and CNN, among others. She has worked extensively in South America covering politics, economics, and international finance organizations. She has also covered Asian finance and politics for NHK Japan, and the Sandinista and Contra conflicts.,
Kathryn,Schulz,Don't regret regret,Wrongologist,beingwrongbook.com/author,,Kathryn Schulz is a journalist, author, and public speaker with a credible (if not necessarily enviable) claim to being the world's leading wrongologist. She was previously the book critic for New York Magazine, her writing has also appeared in the New York Times Magazine, Rolling Stone, TIME Magazine , the Boston Globe, the Freakonomics blog of The New York Times, The Nation, Foreign Policy, and the New York Times Book Review, among other publications. She is the former editor of the online environmental magazine Grist , and a former reporter and editor for The Santiago Times , of Santiago, Chile, where she covered environmental, labor, and human rights issues. She was a 2004 recipient of the Pew Fellowship in International Journalism (now the International Reporting Project), and has reported from throughout Central and South America, Japan, and, most recently, the Middle East. A graduate of Brown University and a former Ohioan, Oregonian and Brooklynite, she currently lives in New York's Hudson Valley.,
Charles,Limb,Building the musical muscle,Researcher,hopkinsmedicine.org,,Charles Limb has two titles on his official website Associate Professor, Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery, and Faculty, Peabody Conservatory of Music. He combines his two passions to study the way the brain creates and perceives music. He's a hearing specialist and surgeon at Johns Hopkins who performs cochlear implantations on patients who have lost their hearing. And he plays sax, piano and bass.,In search of a better understanding of how the mind perceives complex auditory stimuli such as music, he's been working with Allen Braun to look at the brains of improvising musicians and study what parts of the brain are involved in the kind of deep creativity that happens when a musician is really in the groove.
John,Bohannon,Dance vs. powerpoint, a modest proposal,Science writer, johnbohannon.org,,John Bohannon is a biologist and journalist. After embedding in southern Afghanistan in 2010, he engineered the first voluntary release of civilian casualty data by the US-led military coalition. He studies the evolution of fame using data provided by Google, and writes for Science and WIRED . His research on the blurring line between the cuisine of man and pet caused Stephen Colbert to eat cat food on television.,Using an alter ego known as the Gonzo Scientist, he runs the  Dance Your Ph.D.  contest. It's an international competition for scientists to explain their research with interpretive dance .
Annie,Murphy,What we learn before we're born,Science author, anniemurphypaul.com,,To what extent the conditions we encounter before birth influence our individual characteristics? It‘s the question at the center of fetal origins, a relatively new field of research that measures how the effects of influences outside the womb during pregnancy can shape the physical, mental and even emotional well-being of the developing baby for the rest of its life.,Science writer Annie Murphy Paul calls it a gray zone between nature and nurture in her book Origins , a history and study of this emerging field structured around a personal narrative -- Paul was pregnant with her second child at the time. What she finds suggests a far more dynamic nature between mother and fetus than typically acknowledged, and opens up the possibility that the time before birth is as crucial to human development as early childhood.
Damon,Horowitz,Philosophy in prison,Philosopher, entrepreneur,https//www.ted.com/speakers/damon_horowitz,,Damon Horowitz is a philosophy professor and serial entrepreneur. He recently joined Google as In-House Philosopher / Director of Engineering, heading development of several initiatives involving social and search. He came to Google from Aardvark, the social search engine, where he was co-founder and CTO, overseeing product development and research strategy. Prior to Aardvark, Horowitz built several companies around applications of intelligent language processing. He co-founded Perspecta (acquired by Excite), was lead architect for Novation Biosciences (acquired by Agilent), and co-founded NewsDB (now Daylife).,Horowitz teaches courses in philosophy, cognitive science, and computer science at several institutions, including Stanford, NYU, University of Pennsylvania and San Quentin State Prison .
Amy,Purdy,Living beyond limits,Pro snowboarder,amypurdy.com/,,,
Britta,Riley,A garden in my apartment,Artist, urban farmer,windowfarms.org,,Britta Riley is an artist and technologist who makes crowdsourced R&D solutions for environmental issues. Her company, Windowfarms.org was named one of the top 100 businesses to watch in 2010 by Entrepreneur Magazine. Windowfarms makes vertical hydroponic platforms for growing food in city windows, designed in conjunction with a online citizen science web platform for with over 16,000 community members worldwide.,
Joe,Sabia,The technology of storytelling,Storyteller,joesabia.co/,,Joe Sabia calls himself a  conceptor, creator, consultant, collaborator and curator  who helps companies and organizations tell better stories. But you may know him as the creator of ..., Tupac in Kazakhstan , which pieced together dozens of Kazakhs to sing Changes by Tupac Shakur.
Péter,Fankhauser,Meet Rezero, the dancing ballbot,Roboticist,rezero.ethz.ch,,Mechanical engineer Péter Fankhauser is leading a large team of student engineers and designers at the Swiss federal institute of technology in Zurich who are building a robot that balances and drives on a single sphere. Other roboticists have explored this idea, of stabilizing a robot on a ball, but what Fankhauser and his fellow students hoped to do was make it dance. “Adding dynamics was definitely one of our goals,” he says.,Working with researchers including Michael Neunert and Thomas Kammermann, the team has produced Rezero, a ballbot prototype that can slalom around, resist toppling up to 17 degrees off vertical, and inspire myriad uses. Designed for high acceleration, it moves in an organic and even elegant way. Fankhauser has started graduate studies in mechanical engineering this fall with a focus on robotics, control and construction.
Phil,Plait,How to defend Earth from asteroids,Astronomer,www.badastronomy.com/info/whois.html,,Phil Plait is the Bad Astronomer . Not a bad astronomer, but a blogger for Slate who debunks myths and misconceptions about astronomy -- and also writes about the beauty, wonder and importance of fundamental research.,He worked for six years on the Hubble Space Telescope, and directed public outreach for the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope. He is a past president of the James Randi Educational Foundation, and was the host of Phil Plait's Bad Universe , a documentary series on the Discovery Channel.
Natalie,Warne,Being young and making an impact,Activist,nataliewarne.com/,,When she was 17, Natalie Warne learned about the Invisible Children Project -- a campaign to rescue Ugandan children from Joseph Kony’s child armies. As an intern for Invisible Children, she led a nation-wide campaign for the project. She successfully got the campaign featured on the Oprah Winfrey show, a victory that dramatically raised the profile of the movement. Natalie now works as a film editor in Los Angeles.,
Gabe,Zichermann,How games make kids smarter,Entrepreneur, Author,www.gamification.co/about-gabe-zichermann/,,Gabe Zichermann is an entrepreneur and author whose work centers on gamification--and the power of games to help engage people and build strong organizations and communities. In 2010, he chaired the Gamification summit, a conference dedicated to gamification and “engagement mechanics.” An avid blogger on the subject, he co-authored the book Game-Based Marketing , which examines the innovative trend of using game mechanics to engage and build a customer base.,“If you haven’t applied games to advertising, marketing, or brand management, you’ll want to get and study this book -- or it could be game over for you.” — Jonathan Epstein CEO, Double Fusion, former EVP, IGN/Gamespy
Robin,Ince,Science versus wonder?,Comedian, robinince.com,,Is rational thought funny? And is comedy scientific? are the pair of questions on which Robin Ince has built his recent career. On his own and as part of the BBC4 radio show The Infinite Monkey Cage , Robin Ince makes science-friendly comedy with pals like Brian Cox, Ben Goldacre and Simon Singh. TIMC just won the Best Speech Programme at the 2011 Sony Radio Awards, the first science program to win in ... aeons. They recently took the show on the road as Uncaged Monkeys, about which the Telegraph 's critic said, I was expecting more knickers thrown at the stage, to be honest. Onstage, Ince conducts live experiments into the science of comedy and laughter. He and his team set out to discover secret of timing, discover if people are born funny, and if computers can tell jokes.,He says Most scientists I know have movies and novels in their houses, whereas there are novelists whose houses I've been to who don't have any science books.
Cynthia,Kenyon,Experiments that hint of longer lives,Biochemist, geneticist, kenyonlab.ucsf.edu,,Cynthia Kenyon is revolutionizing our understanding of aging. As an expert in biochemistry and biophysics at the University of California at San Francisco, she is particularly interested in the influence that genetics have on age-related diseases (from cancer to heart failure) in living things. Her biggest breakthrough was figuring out that there’s a “universal hormonal control for aging” carbohydrate intake, which can have a dramatic effect on how two critical genes behave, reducing insulin production and boosting repair and renovation activities. So far, her theory has proved true for worms, mice, rats, and monkeys — and she suspects it applies to humans, too. By studying aging, Kenyon believes that she and other scientists (many of whom have successfully duplicated her experiments) will be able to pinpoint the molecules responsible for the onset of age-related diseases in people and prevent them. She’s co-founded a drug-development company called Elixir Pharmaceuticals to do just that.,She says The link between aging and age-related disease suggests an entirely new way to combat many diseases all at once, namely, by going after their greatest risk factor aging itself.
Thomas,Suarez,A 12-year-old app developer,Developer, 12 year old, carrotcorp.com,,Thomas Suarez's interest in technology and programming led him to learn Python, Java, and C “just to get the basics down.” He built an app and then coaxed his parents into paying the $99 fee to get his app, Earth Fortune, in the app store. Thomas also started an app club at school to help other kids build and share their creations, and is now starting his own company, CarrotCorp.,
Yves,Rossy,Fly with the Jetman,Jetman, jetman.com,,On May 7 of this year, Swiss pilot Yves Rossy stepped out of a helicopter 8,000 feet above the Grand Canyon and ... took off. Wearing a rigid wing powered by four model jet turbine engines, Rossy flew for eight minutes over the mile-deep trench, soaring over the red rocks before parachuting down to the Colorado River far below. It's the latest exploit in a life powered by one dream to fly like a bird. Wearing his single wing, Rossy really flies, steering with the movements of his body. In the last couple of years he has crossed the English Channel, flown over the Swiss Alps and performed aerobatic loops around a hot-air balloon, for his next quest, he is developing a new kind of parachute that will enable him to fly as low as 200 meters.,
Alexander,Tsiaras,Conception to birth — visualized,Medical image maker,www.alexandertsiaras.com/,,Alexander Tsiaras is an artist and technologist whose work explores the unseen human body, developing scientific visualization software to enable him to paint the human anatomy using volume data. He's the author of Body Voyage and co-author of Information Architects . Most recently, he is the author of From Conception to Birth A Life Unfolds and The Architecture and Design of Man and Woman The Marvel of the Human Body, Revealed .,His latest project is The Visual MD , an online compendium of health visualizations.
Michael,Nielsen,Open science now!,Physicist, michaelnielsen.org,,A Fulbright scholar, Michael Nielsen not only made significant research contributions in the field of quantum physics, but also co-wrote the popular Quantum Computation and Quantum Information . He left academia to focus his research on “open science,” and recently published Reinventing Discovery The New Era of Networked Science -- a book that discusses the Internet’s ability to “amplify our collective intelligence” and the cultural obstacles of the scientific community impeding this dramatic shift.,“In writing this book, Nielsen has created perhaps the most compelling and comprehensive case so far for a new approach to science in the Internet age ... eloquent, thought-provoking and inspiring to read.” — Timo Hannay, Nature Physics
Roger,McNamee,6 ways to save the internet,Tech investor,www.elevation.com/ep_it.asp?id=102,,Roger McNamee has been an investor in science and tech for close to 30 years. His 2004 book -- The New Normal Opportunities in a Time of Great Risk -- offers business strategies based on the economic and technological trends that are defining this era. He also plays guitar and bass in the band Moonalice, a band known for its clever use of social media.,“Word-class investors like Roger McNamee are able to look around corners and see what's coming before anyone else. ” — Michael Hammer, author of Reengineering the Corporation
Charlie,Todd,The shared experience of absurdity,Comedian,mrcharlietodd.com/,,Bored by a temp job, and tired of waiting for someone to give him a stage, comedian Charlie Todd decided to make his own. So he walked into a bar and pretended to be musician Ben Folds. It went so well that it inspired him to create Improv Everywhere , a New York City-based prank collective that causes scenes of chaos and joy in public places.,Todd has produced, directed, performed, and documented the group’s work for over ten years. In that time they've run over 100 prank missions, some involving hundreds or thousands of agents, and each one creating a wonderful and irreproducible experience.
Allan,Jones,A map of the brain,Brain scientist, alleninstitute.org,,The Allen Institute for Brain Science -- based in Seattle, kickstarted by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen -- has a mission to fuel discoveries about the human brain by building tools the entire scientific community can use. As CEO, one of Allan Jones' first projects was to lead the drive to create a comprehensive atlas of the brain of a mouse. Flash forward to April 2011, when the Allen Institute announced the first milestone in its online interactive atlas of the human brain, showing the activity of the more than 20,000 human genes it contains. It's based on a composite of 15 brains, since every human brain is unique. Think of the Allen Human Brain Atlas as a high-tech bridge between brain anatomy and genetics. Using this atlas, scientists will be able to determine where in the brain genes that encode specific proteins are active, including proteins that are affected by medication. Or researchers could zoom in on brain structures thought to be altered in mental disorders such as schizophrenia to find their molecular footprint. The atlas may provide clues to memory, attention, motor coordination, hunger, and perhaps emotions such as happiness or anxiety.,He says Understanding how our genes are used in our brains will help scientists and the medical community better understand and discover new treatments for the full spectrum of brain diseases and disorders.
Ben,Kacyra,Ancient wonders captured in 3D,Digital preservationist, cyark.org,,As a child, Ben Kacyra was taken to visit the ruins of the ancient city of Nineveh near his home town of Mosul in Iraq, giving him an abiding appreciation for the value of history. So when the Taliban destroyed the Buddhas of Bamiyan in Afghanistan in 2001, the Iraqi-born civil engineer was dismayed. In 2002, he founded California-based nonprofit CyArk in order to apply a highly accurate, portable laser-scanning technology he’d originally developed for monitoring nuclear power plants and other structures – to preserving the world’s cultural heritage sites, what Kacyra calls “our collective human memory”. CyArk’s methods are fast and accurate pulsed lasers generate 3D points of clouds, which render surfaces at accuracy to within millimeters. Combined with high-definition photography and traditional surveying techniques these data make it possible to create highly detailed media – photo textured animations, 3D fly-throughs – that digitally preserve our knowledge of heritage sites against natural disaster, war, and neglect, and make them accessible to the world. Among the sites already scanned are ancient sites in Mexico, the leaning tower of Pisa, and Mount Rushmore.,“Ben Kacyra has made the biggest contribution to archeological research since Indiana Jones added the bullwhip to his field kit.” — SF Chronicle
Aparna,Rao,High-tech art (with a sense of humor),Artist,porsandrao.com,,With the clever use of technology, TED Fellow Aparna Rao creates art installations that let people experience familiar objects and interactions in refreshingly humorous ways. From her sound-sensative Pygmies to her 2-person Uncle Phone, Rao's work encourages participation rather than spectatorship. By combining high-tech and high-art, she imbues her creations with playful expression and quirky behaviors.,Rao studied at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad, India, and at Interaction Design Institute in Italy. In 2005 she partnered with Soren Pors and they've worked in collaboration ever since as Pors & Rao .
Martin,Hanczyc,The line between life and not-life,Chemist,www.martinhanczyc.com/,,Martin Hanczyc is developing novel synthetic chemical systems based on the properties of living systems, in a quest to understand how life forms. These synthetic systems, or protocells, are model systems of primitive living cells and chemical examples of artificial life. As Rachel Armstrong puts it  Although the protocell model system is just a chemically modified oil droplet, its dynamics are astonishingly varied and complex.,He's based at the Institute of Physics and Chemistry and the Center for Fundamental Living Technology (FLinT) in Denmark. He is also an Honorary Senior Lecturer at the Bartlett School of Architecture, University College London.
Sandra,Fisher-Martins,The right to understand,Translator, plain language activist,rosenfeldmedia.com › News & Announcements,,Sandra Fisher Martins helps Portuguese businesses and government agencies introduce clarity to their communications. After seeing a Plain English campaign in England, she was inspired to establish Portugues Claro -- a consulting and training firm that works to ensure that people are not disenfranchised by what she calls an information apartheid that keeps the majority of her fellow Portuguese from fully understanding documents they need for their daily lives. She is working to develop Euro-clear, a European diploma in clear communication.,Find more examples of plain language at Portugues Claro 's website.
Paul,Lewis,Crowdsourcing the news,Journalist,www.paullewispiano.co.uk/,,Paul Lewis uses social media and cellphone video and photos to build hard-hitting stories. He first gained notice for his reporting on the death of Ian Tomlinson , when he used a witness’ cellphone video to prove that the police attacked Tomlinson at the 2009 G-20 protests. The international story led to an internal police investigation and changed the way we think about self-policing in a digital era.,He leads a team of journalists at The Guardian who specialize in using the very reporting methods he helped popularize. He reflects on citizen journalism as part of the book Investigative Journalism Dean or Alive?
Marco,Tempest,Augmented reality, techno-magic,Techno-illusionist,marcotempest.com,,Marco Tempest’s imaginative combination of computer-generated imagery, quick-cut video and enthusiastic stage presence has earned him a place in the pantheon of great illusionists. At 22, the Swiss magician won the New York World Cup of Magic, launching him into international prominence. His lively phonecam postings on YouTube , done without post-production and video-editing tricks to astonished people on the street, get millions of views. At the MIT Media Lab , Tempest is researching the link between magic and technology as a Director's Fellow.,Through his art, Tempest creates a highly entertaining way to be entranced by the reality-bending tech magic that surrounds us all every day. Watch more Marco magic courtesy of Scobleizer ... or see Marco profiled on CNN.com's Next List .
Daniel,Wolpert,The real reason for brains,Movement expert, wolpertlab.com,,Consider your hand. You use it to lift things, to balance yourself, to give and take, to sense the world. It has a range of interacting degrees of freedom, and it interacts with many different objects under a variety of environmental conditions. And for most of us, it all just works. At his lab in the Engineering department at Cambridge, Daniel Wolpert and his team are studying why, looking to understand the computations underlying the brain's sensorimotor control of the body. As he says, I believe that to understand movement is to understand the whole brain. And therefore it’s important to remember when you are studying memory, cognition, sensory processing, they’re there for a reason, and that reason is action.” Movement is the only way we have of interacting with the world, whether foraging for food or attracting a waiter's attention. Indeed, all communication, including speech, sign language, gestures and writing, is mediated via the motor system. Taking this viewpoint, and using computational and robotic techniques as well as virtual reality systems, Wolpert and his team research the purpose of the human brain and the way it determines future actions.,
Anna,Mracek,A plane you can drive,Inventor, terrafugia.com,,Anna Mracek Dietrich is a private pilot trying to making aviation accessible, safe -- and a reasonable way to get to work. With husband Carl and their team at Terrafugia, in Massachusetts, they are building a driveable aircraft (or, as they also term it, the Roadable Aircraft), which is designed to fold its wings, enabling it to be driven like a car. In 2009, Terrafugia successfully flew a proof-of-concept model, and they anticipate that Transition, the first production model, should be on the road by the end of 2011.,She says The most common question we got was 'You know that's impossible, right?' Now that we've done it, I don't get that question nearly so often.
Paul,Zak,Trust, morality — and oxytocin?,Neuroeconomist, neuroeconomicstudies.org,,What’s behind the human instinct to trust and to put each other’s well-being first? When you think about how much of the world works on a handshake or on holding a door open for somebody, why people cooperate is a huge question. Paul Zak researches oxytocin, a neuropeptide that affects our everyday social interactions and our ability to behave altruistically and cooperatively, applying his findings to the way we make decisions. A pioneer in a new field of study called neuroeconomics, Zak has demonstrated that oxytocin is responsible for a variety of virtuous behaviors in humans such as empathy, generosity and trust. Amazingly, he has also discovered that social networking triggers the same release of oxytocin in the brain -- meaning that e-connections are interpreted by the brain like in-person connections.,A professor at Claremont Graduate University in Southern California, Zak believes most humans are biologically wired to cooperate, but that business and economics ignore the biological foundations of human reciprocity, risking loss when oxytocin levels are high in subjects, people’s generosity to strangers increases up to 80 percent, and countries with higher levels of trust – lower crime, better education – fare better economically.
Hasan,Elahi,FBI, here I am!,Privacy artist, elahi.umd.edu,,When the Feds come after you, you have several options panic, resist or, if you’re interdisciplinary American artist Hasan Elahi, flood them with information. It all started in 2002, when Elahi was detained in Detroit after a flight from the Netherlands, suspected of hoarding explosives in a Florida locker. Though lie detector tests subsequently cleared him, Elahi – who is an associate professor at the University of Maryland and has exhibited at the Venice Biennale, the Centre Pompidou, and the Hermitage – was subjected to six months of questioning about his extensive international travels. Figuring once in the system, never out, he decided to turn the tables and cooperate – with a vengeance.,Starting with constant phone calls and emails to the FBI to notify them of his whereabouts, what started as a practicality grew into an open-ended art project. He began posting photos of his minute-by-minute life, up to around a hundred a day, on TrackingTransience.net – hotel rooms, train stations, airports, meals, beds, receipts, even toilets – generating tens of thousands of images in the last several years. Just for good measure, he also wears a GPS device that tracks his movements on his site’s live Google map. And as if to prove his point that “the best way to protect privacy is to give it away,” Elahi – while still being watched by the authorities, according to server records – hasn’t been bothered since.
Béatrice,Coron,Stories cut from paper,Papercutter artist, beatricecoron.com,,Béatrice Coron tells stories informed by life. Her own life colors her work after briefly studying art at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts of Lyon, and Mandarin Chinese at the Université of Lyon III, Coron experienced life with a series of odd jobs. She has been, among others, a shepherdess, truck driver, factory worker, cleaning lady and New York City tour guide. She has lived in France (her native country) , Egypt and Mexico for one year each, and China for two years. She moved to New York in 1985, where she reinvented herself as an artist.,Coron's oeuvre includes illustration, book arts, fine art and public art. She cuts her characteristic silhouette designs in paper and Tyvek. She also creates works in stone, glass, metal, rubber, stained glass and digital media. Her work has been purchased by major museum collections, such as the Metropolitan Museum, the Walker Art Center and The Getty. Her public art can be seen in subways, airport and sports facilities among others.
Jay,Bradner,Open-source cancer research,Research scientist,www.bradnerlab.org/,,A doctor and a chemist, Jay Bradner hunts for new approaches to solving cancer. As a research scientist and instructor in medicine at Harvard and Dana Farber Cancer Institute, he and his lab are working to subvert cancer's aggressive behavior by reprogramming the cell's fundamental identity. A molecule they're working on, JQ1, might do just that. (And he’s giving it away in order to spur faster open-source drug discovery.) If you're a researcher who'd like a sample of the JQ1 molecule, contact the Bradner Lab .,
Malcolm,Gladwell,The strange tale of the Norden bombsight,Writer,gladwell.com/,,Malcolm Gladwell searches for the counterintuitive in what we all take to be the mundane cookies, sneakers, pasta sauce. A New Yorker staff writer since 1996, he visits obscure laboratories and infomercial set kitchens as often as the hangouts of freelance cool-hunters -- a sort of pop-R&D gumshoe -- and for that has become a star lecturer and bestselling author. Sparkling with curiosity, undaunted by difficult research (yet an eloquent, accessible writer), his work uncovers truths hidden in strange data . His always-delightful blog tackles topics from serial killers to steroids in sports, while provocative recent work in the New Yorker sheds new light on the Flynn effect -- the decades-spanning rise in I.Q. scores. Gladwell has written four books. The Tipping Point , which began as a New Yorker piece, applies the principles of epidemiology to crime (and sneaker sales), while Blink examines the unconscious processes that allow the mind to thin slice reality -- and make decisions in the blink of an eye. His third book, Outliers , questions the inevitabilities of success and identifies the relation of success to nature versus nurture. The newest work, What the Dog Saw and Other Adventures , is an anthology of his New Yorker contributions.,He says There is more going on beneath the surface than we think, and more going on in little, finite moments of time than we would guess.
Iain,McGilchrist,The divided brain,Psychiatrist and writer, IainMcGilchrist.com,,Iain McGilchrist is a psychiatrist and writer. Before he came to medicine, he was a literary scholar -- and his work on the brain is shaped by a deep questioning of the role of art and culture. As his official bio puts it He is committed to the idea that the mind and brain can be understood only by seeing them in the broadest possible context, that of the whole of our physical and spiritual existence, and of the wider human culture in which they arise -- the culture which helps to mould, and in turn is moulded by, our minds and brains.,His recent book The Master and His Emissary explores the nature of the brain's two hemispheres (the right is the master, in McGilchrist's terms). How have our two hemispheres evolved to relate -- and how did their relationship create our consciousness, our culture, and our ability to understand our own brains?
Richard,Wilkinson,How economic inequality harms societies,Public health researcher, equalitytrust.org.uk,,For decades, Richard Wilkinson has studied the social effects of income inequality and how social forces affect health. In The Spirit Level , a book coauthored with Kate Pickett, he lays out reams of statistical evidence that, among developed countries, societies that are more equal – with a smaller income gap between rich and poor -- are happier and healthier than societies with greater disparities in the distribution of wealth. While poverty has long been recognized as an indicator for such social ills as crime, obesity, teen pregnancy, Wilkinson and Pickett have demonstrated that societal well-being bears no relation to per capita income. They’ve also found that the symptoms of inequality trouble all levels of society. Across the board, mental health, levels of violence and addiction, even life expectancy are affected by the psycho-social stress caused by income gaps and status anxiety. In the UK, The Spirit Level won support from politicians both left and right. Wilkinson, who is Professor Emeritus of Social Epidemiology at the University of Nottingham, also cofounded The Equality Trust , a nonprofit that aims to reduce income inequality by educating and engaging the public while supporting political commitment to address the problem.,He says While I'd always assumed that an equal society must score better on social cohesion, I never expected to find such clear differences between existing market economies.
Nathalie,Miebach,Art made of storms,Artist,nathaliemiebach.com,,Nathalie Miebach's work focuses on the intersection of art and science and the visual articulation of scientific observations. Her woven sculptures interpret scientific data related to astronomy, ecology and meteorology in three-dimensional space. Her pieces simulatneously function as works of art, aural embodiments of data (musical compositions) and instruments that illustrate environmental change.,By utilizing artistic processes and everyday materials, Miebach questions and expands the boundaries of traditional science data visualization -- and provokes expectations of what visual vocabulary is considered to be in the domain of science and art. Miebach is a TEDGlobal 2011 Fellow .
Todd,Kuiken,A prosthetic arm that feels,Biomedical engineer, ric.org,,As Dean Kamen said at TED2007, the design of the prosthetic arm hadn't really been updated since the Civil War -- basically a stick and a hook. But at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, physiatrist Todd Kuiken is building new arms and hands that are wired into the nervous system and can be controlled by the same impulses from the brain that once controlled flesh and blood. Kuiken's training -- as both a physician and an engineer -- helps him see both sides of this complex problem. A technology called targeted muscle reinnervation uses nerves remaining after an amputation to control an artificial limb, linking brain impulses to a computer in the prosthesis that directs motors to move the limb. An unexpected effect in some patients not only can they move their new limb, they can feel with it.,He said From an engineering standpoint, this is the greatest challenge one can imagine trying to restore the most incredible machine in the universe.
Guy-Philippe,Goldstein,How cyberattacks threaten real-world peace,Author,https//www.ted.com/speakers/guy_philippe_goldstein,,By day, Guy-Philippe Goldstein is a management consultant. At night, he writes gripping political thrillers treating of cyberwar. He's a graduate of France’s prestigious Hautes Études Commerciales, and has an MBA from Northwestern University. Babel Minute Zero is his first novel.,
Justin,Hall-Tipping,Freeing energy from the grid,Science entrepreneur,nanoholdings.com,,Some of our most serious planetary worries revolve around energy and power -- controlling it, paying for it, and the consequences of burning it. Justin Hall-Tipping had an epiphany about energy after seeing footage of a chunk of ice the size of his home state (Connecticut) falling off Antarctica into the ocean, and decided to focus on science to find new forms of energy. A longtime investor, he formed Nanoholdings to work closely with universities and labs who are studying new forms of nano-scale energy in the four sectors of the energy economy generation, transmission, storage and conservation. Nanotech as a field is still very young (the National Science Foundation says it's at a level of development similar to that of computer technology in the 1950s) and nano-energy in particular holds tremendous promise.,He says For the first time in human history, we actually have the ability to pick up an atom and place it the way we want. Some very powerful things can happen when you can do that.
Bunker,Roy,Learning from a barefoot movement,Educator,www.barefootcollege.org/category/bunker-roy/,,Development projects the world over run into one crucial point For a project to live on, it needs to be organic, owned and sustained by those it serves. In 1972, Sanjit “Bunker” Roy founded the Barefoot College, in the village of Tilonia in Rajasthan, India, with just this mission to provide basic services and solutions in rural communities with the objective of making them self-sufficient. These “barefoot solutions” can be broadly categorized into solar energy, water, education, health care, rural handicrafts, people’s action, communication, women’s empowerment and wasteland development. The Barefoot College education program, for instance, teaches literacy and also skills, encouraging learning-by-doing. (Literacy is only part of it.) Bunker’s organization has also successfully trained grandmothers from Africa and the Himalayan region to be solar engineers so they can bring electricity to their remote villages.,As he says, Barefoot College is a place of learning and unlearning where the teacher is the learner and the learner is the teacher.
Jae,Rhim,My mushroom burial suit,Artist, zonezerozerostudio.com,,Jae Rhim Lee is a visual artist and mushroom lover. In her early work, as a grad student at MIT, she built systems that reworked basic human processes sleeping (check out her it-just-might-work vertical bed from 2004), urinating and eating (and the relationship between the two). Now she's working on a compelling new plan for the final human process decomposition. Her Infinity Burial Project explores the choices we face after death, and how our choices reflect our denial or acceptance of death’s physical implications. She's been developing a new strain of fungus, the Infinity Mushroom, that feeds on and remediates the industrial toxins we store in our bodies and convert our unused bodies efficiently into nutrients. Her Infinity Burial System converts corpses into clean compost. She was in residence at the MAK Center in Los Angeles this fall working on the project. And if this vision of life after death appeals to you, sign up to become a Decompinaut yourself.,“Jae Rhim Lee's work challenges the boundaries prescribed by society and ?culture between self and other by proposing unorthodox relationships for the ?mind/body/self.” — MIT
Pamela,Meyer,How to spot a liar,Lie detector,liespotting.com/,,“All forms of self deception make us vulnerable to the scam, the con, the false promise, the bad hire, the unwise promotion, the faulty new product.” — Portfolio.com,
Ian,Ritchie,The day I turned down Tim Berners-Lee,Software entrepreneur, Coppertop.com,,Ian Ritchie is chair of iomart plc. and several other computer and learning businesses, including Computer Application Services Ltd., the Interactive Design Institute and Caspian Learning Ltd. He is co-chair of the Scottish Science Advisory Council, a board member of the Edinburgh International Science Festival and the chair of Our Dynamic Earth, the Edinburgh Science Centre.,Ritchie founded and managed Office Workstations Limited (OWL) in Edinburgh in 1984 and its subsidiary OWL International Inc. in Seattle from 1985. OWL became the first and largest supplier of Hypertext/Hypermedia authoring tools (a forerunner to the World Wide Web) for personal computers based on its Guide product. OWL's customers used its systems to implement large interactive multimedia documentation systems in industry sectors such as automobile, defence, publishing, finance, and education. OWL was sold to Matsushita Electrical Industrial (Panasonic) of Japan in December 1989. He is the author of New Media Publishing Opportunities from the digital revolution (1996).
Richard,Seymour,How beauty feels,Designer, seymourpowell.com,,Designer Richard Seymour works on products with soul -- from a curvy, swoopy iron to a swift and sleek city motorcycle. Seymourpowell is regarded as one of the world’s leading product and innovation design consultancies, with clients who include Ford, Virgin Galactic, Tefal, Casio, Nokia, Guinness, Samsung and Unilever. Seymour is also consultant global creative director of design to Unilever’s Dove, Axe/Lynx and Vaseline brands.,The pair have appeared extensively on British television, most notably in two series on design for Channel 4 Better by Design and Designs on your... . They have also appeared on Design Challenge and several radio productions. In the 1980s, Seymour co-wrote the book The Mirrorstone , with Michael Palin, a children's book full of holograms ...
Alison,Gopnik,What do babies think?,Child development psychologist, alisongopnik.com,,What’s it really like to see through the eyes of a child? Are babies and young children just empty, irrational vessels to be formed into little adults, until they become the perfect images of ourselves? On the contrary, argues Alison Gopnik, professor of psychology and philosophy at the University of California at Berkeley. The author of The Philosophical Baby, The Scientist in the Crib and other influential books on cognitive development, Gopnik presents evidence that babies and children are conscious of far more than we give them credit for, as they engage every sense and spend every waking moment discovering, filing away, analyzing and acting on information about how the world works. Gopnik’s work draws on psychological, neuroscientific, and philosophical developments in child development research to understand how the human mind learns, how and why we love, our ability to innovate, as well as giving us a deeper appreciation for the role of parenthood.,She says What's it like to be a baby? Being in love in Paris for the first time after you've had 3 double espressos.
Charles,Hazlewood,Trusting the ensemble,Conductor, charleshazlewood.com,,Charles Hazlewood's fresh presentations of classical music shake up the traditional settings of the form -- in one performance he’ll engage in a conversation with the audience, while in another he’ll blend film or sculpture into a piece -- but his goal is always the same exposing the deep, always-modern joy of the classics. He's a familiar face on British TV, notably in the 2009 series The Birth of British Music on BBC2. He conducts the BBC Orchestras and guest-conducts orchestras around the world. Together with Mark Dornford-May, he founded a lyric-theatre company in South Africa called Dimpho Di Kopane (which means combined talents) after auditioning in the townships and villages of South Africa. Of the 40 members, only three had professional training. They debuted with Bizet's Carmen , which was later transposed into a movie version called U-Carmen eKhayelitsha , spoken and sung in Xhosa, that was honored at the Berlin Flim Festival. He regularly involves children in his projects and curates his own music festival, Play the Field, on his farm in Somerset. His latest project the ParaOrchestra .,He says I have loads of issues with the way classical music is presented. It has been too reverential, too 'high art' -- if you're not in the club, they're not going to let you join. It's like The Turin Shroud don't touch it because it might fall apart.
Mike,Biddle,We can recycle plastic,Plastics recycler, mbapolymers.com<,,Throwing water bottles into the recycling bin doesn’t begin to address the massive quantity of postconsumer plastic that ends up in landfills and the ocean. Because it’s so difficult to separate the various kinds of plastics – up to 20 kinds per product – that make up our computers, cell phones, cars and home appliances, only a small fraction of plastics from complex waste streams are recycled, while the rest is tossed. In 1992, Mike Biddle, a plastics engineer, set out to find a solution. He set up a lab in his garage in Pittsburg, California, and began experimenting with complex-plastics recycling, borrowing ideas from such industries as mining and grain processing. Since then, Biddle has developed a patented 30-step plastics recycling system that includes magnetically extracting metals, shredding the plastics, sorting them by polymer type and producing graded pellets to be reused in industry – a process that takes less than a tenth of the energy required to make virgin plastic from crude oil. Today, the company he cofounded, MBA Polymers , has plants in China and Austria, and plans to build more in Europe, where electronics-waste regulation (which doesn’t yet have an equivalent in the US) already ensures a stream of materials to exploit – a process Biddle calls “above-ground mining.”,He says I consider myself an environmentalist. I hate to see plastics wasted. I hate to see any natural resource – even human time – wasted.”
Steve,Jobs,How to live before you die,Chairman of the Board, Apple,www.apple.com/stevejobs,,The pundits of Silicon Valley have a term for Steve Jobs' charisma the reality distortion field. But the truth is, most of us like living in Jobs' reality, where exquisite design and sheer utility make for some addictively usable tools . Jobs' famous persuasive power was equalled by his creativity and business brilliance -- apparent in legendary hardware and software achievements across three decades of work. The Macintosh computer (which brought the mouse-driven, graphical user interface to prominence), Pixar Animation Studios (which produced Toy Story , the first fully-3D-animated feature film), the iPod, the iPhone, the iPad all owe credit to Jobs' leadership and invention.,Jobs battled a rare form of pancreatic cancer -- adding to an epic life story that mirrors the story of Apple itself ever the underdog, ever the spectacular success. In August 2011 he stepped down as Apple's CEO, remaining as Chairman of the Board. He died on October 5, 2011.
Graham,Hill,Less stuff, more happiness,Journalist,TreeHugger.com,,You should be allowed to be a modern city dweller and still care about the environment.” — Graham Hill
Christoph,Adami,Finding life we can't imagine,Artificial life researcher,adamilab.msu.edu/,,Christoph Adami researches the nature of living systems, using 'artificial life' -- small, self-replicating computer programs. His main research focus is Darwinian evolution, which he studies at different levels of organization (from simple molecules to brains). He has pioneered theapplication of methods from information theory to the study of evolution, and designed the Avida system that launched the use of digital life as a tool for investigating basic questions in evolutionary biology.,He is Professor of Applied Life Sciences at the Keck Graduate Institute in Claremont, CA, and a Visiting Professor at the BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action at Michigan State University. He obtained his PhD in theoretical physics from the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Yang,Lan,The generation that's remaking China,Media mogul, TV host, chinasunmedia.com,,Yang Lan’s rise to stardom in China has drawn comparisons to Oprah Winfrey’s success in the US. It’s easy to see why Yang is a self-made entrepreneur and the most powerful woman in the Chinese media. As chair of Sun Media Investment Holdings, a business empire she built with her husband, Yang is a pioneer of open communication.,Yang started her journalism career by establishing the ?rst current-events TV program in China. She created and hosted many other groundbreaking shows, starting with the chatfes t Yang Lan One on One. The popular Her Village, which now includes an online magazine and website, brings together China’s largest community of professional women (more than 200 million people a month).
Danielle,de,A flirtatious aria,Soprano, danielledeniese.com,,It’s not every day that an opera singer is deemed “cool.” But Danielle de Niese does look and act, at times, more like a pop singer than an opera star. Born in Melbourne of Dutch/Scottish/Sri Lankan parents, de Niese started classical voice lessons at 8, and moved at 10 to Los Angeles to attend a school of performing arts, while working as a television presenter on a teen show called LA Kids . But de Niese always knew she would be a singer. At the startlingly young age of 19 she made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing Barbarina in Le nozze di Figaro . At 25, de Niese stunned audiences and garnered international acclaim with her sultry portrayal of Cleopatra in Handel’s Giulio Cesare at the 2005 Glyndebourne Festival in the UK. Gracing the world’s great opera stages and an exclusive recording contract with Decca may seem an unlikely fate for a former teen TV host born Down Under, but de Niese embraces contrasts and challenges. She’s already starred in her own BBC4 reality show, Diva Diaries , and soon fans will be seeing her on the big screen, playing her first major film role in the Maria Callas biopic Master Class .,She says What I do demands the same kind of expertise as a professional athlete.
Ben,Goldacre,Battling bad science,Debunker, alltrials.net,,It was the MMR story that finally made me crack, begins the Bad Science manifesto, referring to the sensationalized -- and now-refuted -- link between vaccines and autism. With that sentence Ben Goldacre fired the starting shot of a crusade waged from the pages of The Guardian from 2003 to 2011, on an addicitve Twitter feed, and in bestselling books, including Bad Science and his latest, Bad Pharma , which puts the $600 billion global pharmaceutical industry under the microscope. What he reveals is a fascinating, terrifying mess. Goldacre was trained in medicine at Oxford and London, and works as an academic in epidemiology. Helped along by this inexhaustible supply of material, he also travels the speaking circuit, promoting skepticism and nerdish curiosity with fire, wit, fast delivery and a lovable kind of exasperation. (He might even convince you that real science, sober reporting and reason are going to win in the end.),As he writes, If you're a journalist who misrepresents science for the sake of a headline, a politician more interested in spin than evidence, or an advertiser who loves pictures of molecules in little white coats, then beware your days are numbered.
Jarreth,Merz,Filming democracy in Ghana,Filmmaker,anafricanelection.com,,Raised in Ghana, Switzerland and Germany, Jarreth Merz is a filmmaker and actor (you may remember him in the role of Simon of Cyrene in The Passion of the Christ ). As a director, his work is rooted in observing life as it presents itself in all its complexities -- as shown in his latest documentary, An African Election , which follows the 2008 presidential elections in Ghana, West Africa.,Merz's stepfather, a political player on Ghana, helped him get access behind the scenes, then Jarreth and his cameraman brother Kevin followed the presidential candidates in the unpredictable months leading up to the final night. In chronicling the rough-and-tumble process of a democratic election, the documentary becomes a meditation on the dream of democracy itself. The film screened in the World Documentary competition at Sundance earlier this year. Merz is now working on a “political safari” in Africa.
Geoff,Mulgan,A short intro to the Studio School,Social commentator,www.nesta.org.uk/users/geoff-mulgan,,Geoff Mulgan is director of the Young Foundation, a center for social innovation, social enterprise and public policy with a 50-year history of creating new organisations and pioneering ideas in fields as varied as aging, education, healthcare and poverty reduction.,Before the Young Foundation, Geoff Mulgan has held various roles in the UK government including director of the Government's Strategy Unit and head of policy in the Prime Minister's office, and he was the founder of the think-tank Demos. He is chairing a Carnegie Inquiry into the Future of Civil Society in the UK and Ireland. His most recent book is The Art of Public Strategy Mobilising Power and Knowledge for the Common Good.
Abraham,Verghese,A doctor's touch,Physician and author, abrahamverghese.com,,Before he finished medical school, Abraham Verghese spent a year on the other end of the medical pecking order, as a hospital orderly. Moving unseen through the wards, he saw the patients with new eyes, as human beings rather than collections of illnesses. The experience has informed his work as a doctor -- and as a writer. Imagining the Patient’s Experience was the motto of the Center for Medical Humanities & Ethics, which he founded at the University of Texas San Antonio, where he brought a deep-seated empathy. He’s now a professor for the Theory and Practice of Medicine at Stanford, where his old-fashioned weekly rounds have inspired a new initiative, the Stanford 25, teaching 25 fundamental physical exam skills and their diagnostic benefits to interns. He’s also a best-selling writer, with two memoirs and a novel, Cutting for Stone , a moving story of two Ethiopian brothers bound by medicine and betrayal.,He says “I still find the best way to understand a hospitalized patient is not by staring at the computer screen but by going to see the patient, it's only at the bedside that I can figure out what is important.”
Sunni,Brown,Doodlers, unite!,Visualizer and gamestorming, sunnibrown.com,,Sunni Brown is co-author of GameStorming A Playbook for Rule-breakers, Innovators and Changemakers . She’s known for her large-scale live content visualizations, and she is also the leader of the Doodle Revolution – a growing effort to debunk the myth that doodling is a distraction. Using common sense, experience and neuroscience, Sunni is proving that to doodle is to ignite your whole mind. Look for her second book, The Doodle Revolution, in 2012. Her consultancy, BrightSpot I.D., specializes in visual thinking and information design. She was trained in graphic facilitation at the Grove Consultants International, a San Francisco-based company that pioneered the use of large-scale visuals in business settings. Sunni co-founded VizThink Austin, which under her leadership grew to be the largest visual thinking community in the United States.,
Elizabeth,Murchison,Fighting a contagious cancer,Cancer researcher, kings.cam.ac.uk/research/fellows,,Elizabeth Murchison grew up in Tasmania, the island home of the small, aggressive marsupial known as the Tasmanian devil. In the mid-'90s, the devils were beset with a terrible new disease -- a contagious facial cancer, spread by biting, that killed the animals just as they reached breeding age. By 2008, half the devil population of Australia had contracted the cancer and died. And as Murchison says I didn’t want to sit back and let the devils disappear.”,Leading an international team at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, she worked to understand why this cancer was so virulent -- with the goal of saving the Taz, as it is called, but also of understanding how a contagious cancer works. Analyzing gene and microRNA activity in 25 different facial tumors and in healthy tissue, the team found that cancers from animals across Tasmania were identical, and that the cancer stems from Schwann cells, which normally insulate nerve fibers. Now a Research Fellow in Medical Sciences at King's College, Cambridge, Murchison is using high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies to investigate the genetics and evolution of this disease, one of only three known cancers that spread contagiously.
Amy,Lockwood,Selling condoms in the Congo,Global development worker,globalhealthsciences.ucsf.edu/.../a...,,Amy Lockwood is the deputy director of the Center for Innovation in Global Health at Stanford's School of Medicine, where she works in management, strategy and international development focused on issues of global health.,Before coming to Stanford, Lockwood was the Executive Director of Project Healthy Children, which works with governments and local industries in Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Malawi, Nepal and Rwanda to develop and implement comprehensive food fortification strategies to combat micronutrient malnutrition. She has also worked with the Clinton Foundation as the Director of the Global Pediatric HIV/AIDS Program and Deputy Country Director for India, where she was responsible for supporting governments to develop strategies and implementation plans, design guidelines, build systems, procure drugs and diagnostics, and deliver care to HIV-positive children and adults.
Jean-Baptiste,Michel,What we learned from 5 million books,Data researcher,ngrams.googlelabs.com,,Jean-Baptiste Michel holds joint academic appointments at Harvard (FQEB Fellow) and Google (Visiting Faculty). His research focusses on using large volumes of data as tools that help better understand the world around us -- from the way diseases progress in patients over years, to the way cultures change in human societies over centuries. With his colleague Erez Lieberman Aiden, Jean-Baptiste is a Founding Director of Harvard's Cultural Observatory, where their research team pioneers the use of quantitative methods for the study of human culture, language and history. His research was featured on the covers of Science and Nature , on the front pages of the New York Times and the Boston Globe , in The Economist, Wired and many other venues. The online tool he helped create -- ngrams.googlelabs.com -- was used millions of times to browse cultural trends. Jean-Baptiste is an Engineer from Ecole Polytechnique (Paris), and holds an MS in Applied Mathematics and a PhD in Systems Biology from Harvard.,
Niall,Ferguson,The 6 killer apps of prosperity,Historian, niallferguson.com,,Niall Ferguson teaches history and business administration at Harvard and is a senior research fellow at several other universities, including Oxford. His books chronicle a wide range of political and socio-economic events, he has written about everything from German politics during the era of inflation to a financial history of the world. He’s now working on a biography of former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Ferguson is a prolific and often controversial commentator on contemporary politics and economics. He frequently writes, reviews, and hosts for the British and American press. His latest book and TV series, Civilization The West and the Rest, aims to help 21st-century audiences understand the past and the present. In it, he asks how, since the 1500s, Western nations have surpassed their Eastern counterparts and came to dominate the world (his answer thanks to six “killer apps” science, medicine, protestant work ethic, competition, property rights, consumer society). And he wonders whether that domination is now threatened by the rise of Asia. His theories have drawn criticism and prompted discussions, which he says was his intent. “It’s designed to be slightly annoying, so that you talk about it,” he told The Observer.,He says If a majority of people subscribe to a particular view, it pays to question it. It pays to think maybe this is wrong.
Sasha,Dichter,The Generosity Experiment,Nonprofit VC,nextgencharity.com,,Sasha Dichter is the Director of Business Development at Acumen Fund , a nonprofit venture capital fund that invests in enterprises that serve the poor. In this role, he leads up capital raising globally for Acumen Fund, including executing a successful $100M capital raise, serving as the point person for Acumen Fund’s Partner community, and heading up global partnerships for Acumen Fund including global expansion. Sasha is a member of Acumen Fund’s leadership team and the author of the Manifesto for Nonprofit CEOs . He blogs about generosity,philanthropy and social change at http//sashadichter.wordpress.com .,Before Acumen Fund, Sasha worked as Global Manager of Corporate Citizenship at GE Money, expanding financial offerings to underserved communities globally, and as a Senior Program Manager at IBM, spearheading the company’s corporate citizenship strategy and launching a leadership program for school administrators. Sasha began his career as a management consultant for Booz & Company in the telecommunications practice, based in New York but working primarily in Latin America and Europe. He’s also had stints with the microfinance group of Bank Rakyat Indonesia and with the venture-backed Navic Networks, recently acquired by Microsoft.
Lauren,Zalaznick,The conscience of television,Media executive,www.fastcompany.com › My Creative Life,,In her industry-famous overhaul of Bravo, Lauren Zalaznick took a marginal arts-centered network and made it the destination for trendy reality TV. Now the tastemaker who brought us shows like Project Runway, Top Chef and the Real Housewives franchise is applying her savvy to the challenge of creating a truly multimedia network. As chair of NBC Universal Entertainment & Digital Networks and Integrated Media, Zalaznick is using digital media to fuel the popularity of traditional media.,Before her career in television, Zalaznick produced several award-winning indie ?lms, including Larry Clark’s iconic Kids and Jim McKay’s Girls Town . She broke into TV as a senior executive at music channel VH1, pioneering the low-budget, simple and cunning Pop-Up Video . Her sharp pop-culture sensibility has earned her a place among Time ’s 100 Most In?uential People, Vanity Fair ’s New Establishment and Fortune ’s 50 Most Powerful Women.
Richard,Resnick,Welcome to the genomic revolution,Entrepreneur, genomequest.com,,Richard Resnick is CEO of GenomeQuest , a company that builds software to support genomic medicine -- research and individualized treatments that take advantage of cheap and accessible genome processing. He was previously CEO of Mosaic Bioinformatics, before becoming a bio-entrepreneur, he was a member of the Human Genome Project under Eric Lander at MIT.,
Kate,Hartman,The art of wearable communication,Artist and technologist, katehartman.com,,“You didn't water me enough.” — Tweet by @pothos, Feb. 4 2011,
Misha,Glenny,Hire the hackers!,Underworld investigator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/misha_glenny,,In minute detail, Misha Glenny's 2008 book McMafia illuminates the byzantine outlines of global organized crime. Whether it's pot smugglers in British Columbia, oil/weapons/people traffickers in Eastern Europe, Japanese yakuza or Nigerian scammers, to research this magisterial work Glenny penetrated the convoluted, globalized and franchised modern underworld -- often at considerable personal risk. The book that resulted is an exhaustive look at an unseen industry that Glenny believes may account for 15% of the world's GDP. Legal society ignores this world at its peril, but Glenny suggests that conventional law enforcement might not be able to combat a problem whose roots lie in global instability. While covering the Central Europe beat for the Guardian and the BBC, Glenny wrote several acclaimed books on the fall of Yugoslavia and the rise of the Balkan nations. He's researching a new book on cybercrime, of which he says The key to cybercrime is what we call social engineering. Or to use the technical term for it, there's one born every minute.,Watch TED's exclusive video Q&A with Glenny Behind the Scenes of McMafia >>
Yasheng,Huang,Does democracy stifle economic growth?,Political economist, web.mit.edu/yshuang/,,MIT and Fudan University professor Yasheng Huang is an authority on how to get ahead in emerging economies. The China and India Labs he founded at MIT's Sloan School of Management specialize in helping local startups improve their strategies. His book Capitalism with Chinese Characteristics (2008) chronicles three decades of economic reform in China and documents the critical role that private entrepreneurship played in the Communist nation’s “economic miracle.” Huang believes that China is moving away from Marxism (public ownership) but not Leninism (ideology of state control) -- and that strong social fundamentals are the key reason for its growth. He is a vocal critic of US foreign policy in China, calling on American leaders to rethink their messages, which often do not resonate with the Chinese public, and to use technology to broaden their reach, overcome stereotypes and quash conspiracy theories. He says For too long the US has not paid attention to an important force in the Chinese economy the rise of indigenous entrepreneurs. This is in sharp contrast to the US approach in India.,In early 2013 Huang sparred with Eric X. Li in Foreign Affairs about the merits of China's one-party system. Li's article became the basis for his TEDGlobal 2013 talk , which Huang then responded to on the TED Blog .
Raghava,KK,Shake up your story,Artist,raghavakk.com,,Raghava KK began his career in art as a newspaper cartoonist, and the cartoonist’s bold line -- and dead-on eye for truth -- still powers his art. His work spans painting, sculpture, installation, film and iPad art, always linked by his challenging opinions on identity, conformity, gender, celebrity, ceremony. (He even views his lavish Indian wedding as a piece of performance art.),His early work as a painter made a complete break with his cartoon career -- he painted watercolors on canvas using only his hands and feet. Since then, his work has grown to knit together aesthetics from both worlds, as collage and complication play against flat color and precise lines. He shows in galleries and performance spaces around the world and often collaborates with other artists, most recently with musicians Paul Simon and Erykah Badu. In 2011, he launched his children's iPad book, Pop-it , shaking up the concept of an ideal family. He is currently working on a project that promises to shake up everything! From news to education.
Lee,Cronin,Making matter come alive,Chemist,www.chem.gla.ac.uk/cronin/,,Lee Cronin's lab at the University of Glasgow does cutting-edge research into how complex chemical systems, created from non-biological building blocks, can have real-world applications with wide impact. At TEDGlobal 2012, Cronin shared some of the lab's latest work creating a 3D printer for molecules. This device -- which has been prototyped -- can download plans for molecules and print them, in the same way that a 3D printer creates objects. In the future, Cronin says this technology could potentially be used to print medicine -- cheaply and wherever it is needed. As Cronin says What Apple did for music, I'd like to do for the discovery and distribution of prescription drugs.,At TEDGlobal 2011, Cronin shared his lab's bold plan to create life. At the moment, bacteria is the minimum unit of life -- the smallest chemical unit that can undergo evolution. But in Cronin's emerging field, he's thinking about forms of life that won't be biological. To explore this, and to try to understand how life itself originated from chemicals, Cronin and others are attempting to create truly artificial life from completely non-biological chemistries that mimic the behavior of natural cells. They call these chemical cells, or Chells.
Sarah,Kaminsky,My father the forger,Actor and writer,www.sarahkaminsky.com/,,Born in 1979 in Algeria, of an Argentinean father with Russian origins, and a Tuareg Algerian mother, Sarah Kaminsky arrived in France when she was 3 years old. Passionate about art since her childhood, she started learning the cello at age 4. As a teenager, she discovered two passions, which are still vibrant in her life theater and writing. Since then, she's shared her time between her acting career and writing screenplays, plays or books.,In 2009, Sarah wrote a book worthy of the best spy novels, based on the true story of her father, Adolfo Kaminsky, genius-forger who committed his know-how and convictions to serve the French Resistance during World War II, saving thousands of Jewish families, and many others over the course of 30 years for various causes around the world.
Edward,Tenner,Unintended consequences,Historian of technology and culture, edwardtenner.com,,Edward Tenner is an independent writer and speaker on the history of technology and the unintended consequences of innovation. He writes for The Atlantic on history and current events, and was a founding advisor of Smithsonian's Lemelson Center, where he remains a senior research associate. He was executive editor for physical science and history at Princeton University Press, he has been a visiting lecturer at Princeton and has held visiting research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and the Princeton Center for Information Technology Policy. He is now a visiting scholar in the Rutgers School of Communication and Information and an affiliate of the Center for Arts and Cultural Policy of Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School.,
Joan,Halifax,Compassion and the true meaning of empathy,Author, Zen priest,https//www.upaya.org/about/rosh,,Activist, anthropologist, author, caregiver, ecologist, LSD researcher, teacher, and Zen Buddhism priest -- Joan Halifax is many things to many people. Yet they all seem to agree that no matter what role she plays, Halifax is consistently courageous and compassionate. Halifax runs the Upaya Zen Center in New Mexico, a Zen Peacemaker community she opened in 1990 after founding and leading the Ojai Foundation in California for ten years. Her practice focuses on socially engaged Buddhism, which aims to alleviate suffering through meditation, interfaith cooperation, and social service.,As director of the Project on Being With Dying, Halifax has helped caregivers cope with death and dying for more than three decades. Her book Being With Dying helps clergy, community activists, medical professionals, social workers and spiritual seekers remove fear from the end of life. Halifax is a distinguished invited scholar of the U.S. Library of Congress and the only woman and Buddhist on the Tony Blair Foundation’s Advisory Council.
Skylar,Tibbits,Can we make things that make themselves?,Inventor, sjet.us,,Can we create objects that assemble themselves -- that zip together like a strand of DNA or that have the ability for transformation embedded into them? These are the questions that Skylar Tibbits investigates in his Self-Assembly Lab at MIT, a cross-disciplinary research space where designers, scientists and engineers come together to find ways for disordered parts to become ordered structures.,A trained architect, designer and computer scientist, Tibbits teaches design studios at MIT’s Department of Architecture and co-teaches the seminar “How to Make (Almost) Anything” at MIT’s Media Lab. Before that, he worked at a number of design offices including Zaha Hadid Architects, Asymptote Architecture, SKIII Space Variations and Point b Design. His work has been shown at the Guggenheim Museum and the Beijing Biennale. Tibbits has collaborated with a number of influential people over the years, including Neil Gershenfeld and The Center for Bits and Atoms, Erik and Marty Demaine at MIT, Adam Bly at SEED Media Group and Marc Fornes of THEVERYMANY. In 2007, he and Marc Fornes co-curated Scriptedbypurpose , the first exhibition focused exclusively on scripted processes within design. Also in 2007, he founded SJET , a multifaceted practice and research platform for experimental computation and design. SJET crosses disciplines from architecture and design, fabrication, computer science and robotics.
Julia,Bacha,Pay attention to nonviolence,Filmmaker,www.justvision.org/staff/julia-bacha,,Budrus is a Palestinian agricultural village in the West Bank that relies on its olive groves. And Budrus is a documentary about what happened in the village when Israeli authorities tried to uproot those olive groves to build a barrier. The villagers resisted, peacefully, for 10 months, with leader Ayed Morrar helping to unite Fatah, Hamas, the villagers, and Israeli supporters in nonviolent protest. Most vital, Palestinian women, including Morrar's daughter, took a leading role.,It's a story that Julia Bacha found tailor-made for Just Vision , an organization that uses film and storytelling to Increase the power and legitimacy of Palestinians and Israelis working for nonviolent solutions to the conflict. A break in the endless stalemate, she believes, must come from the bottom up. And the way to help the process is to show the humanity of those working for change. Bacha was also the co-director of Encounter Point , featured during Pangea Day in 2008 -- a feature documentary film about four ordinary people, on both sides of the conflict, who lost nearly everything but who nevertheless work for an end to occupation in favor of peace.
Svante,Pääbo,DNA clues to our inner neanderthal,Geneticist,www.eva.mpg.de/genetics/staff/paabo/,,Svante Pääbo's research on the DNA of human and nonhuman primates has exposed the key genetic changes that transformed our grunting ape-like ancestors into the charming latte-sipping humans we are today. As a director at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, Pääbo and his team developed a technique of isolating and sequencing the DNA of creatures long extinct, using a variety of fragile, ancient source material from Homo sapiens and other human species. His work shows that all humans trace their ancestry to a small population of Africans who later spread out across the world. We’ve also learned that Neanderthals, the short stocky hunters who disappeared 30,000 years ago, mated with the more modern human species and left their imprint deep within our genome. In 2007, Time named the Swedish biologist one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World for his work.,He says Neanderthals are not totally extinct. In some of us they live on, a little bit.
Dan,Ariely,Beware conflicts of interest,Behavioral economist,predictablyirrational.com,,Dan Ariely is a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University and a founding member of the Center for Advanced Hindsight. He is the author of the bestsellers Predictably Irrational , The Upside of Irrationality , and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty . Through his research and his (often amusing and unorthodox) experiments, he questions the forces that influence human behavior and the irrational ways in which we often all behave.,“If you want to know why you always buy a bigger television than you intended, or why you think it's perfectly fine to spend a few dollars on a cup of coffee at Starbucks, or why people feel better after taking a 50-cent aspirin but continue to complain of a throbbing skull when they're told the pill they took just cost one penny, Ariely has the answer.” — Daniel Gross, Newsweek
Marco,Tempest,The magic of truth and lies (and iPods),Techno-illusionist,marcotempest.com,,Marco Tempest’s imaginative combination of computer-generated imagery, quick-cut video and enthusiastic stage presence has earned him a place in the pantheon of great illusionists. At 22, the Swiss magician won the New York World Cup of Magic, launching him into international prominence. His lively phonecam postings on YouTube , done without post-production and video-editing tricks to astonished people on the street, get millions of views. At the MIT Media Lab , Tempest is researching the link between magic and technology as a Director's Fellow.,Through his art, Tempest creates a highly entertaining way to be entranced by the reality-bending tech magic that surrounds us all every day. Watch more Marco magic courtesy of Scobleizer ... or see Marco profiled on CNN.com's Next List .
Lucianne,Walkowicz,Finding planets around other stars,Stellar astronomer,astro.berkeley.edu/~lucianne/z,,Lucianne Walkowicz studies the inscrutable faces of the stars for clues to the inner workings of their hearts. She got her taste for astronomy as an undergrad at Johns Hopkins, testing detectors for the Hubble Space Telescope’s new camera (installed in 2002). She also learned to love the dark stellar denizens of our galaxy, the red dwarfs, which became the topic of her PhD dissertation at University of Washington. Nowadays, she works on NASA’s Kepler mission, studying starspots and the tempestuous tantrums of stellar flares to understand stellar magnetic fields. She is particularly interested in how the high energy radiation from stars influences the habitability of planets around alien suns. Lucianne is also a leader in the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, a new project that will scan the sky every night for 10 years to create a huge cosmic movie of our Universe.,“Walkowicz's project is also working to understand the nature of dark energy (We're going to find things we don't understand) ...” — David Rowan, Wired UK
Jeremy,Gilley,One day of peace,Peace activist,peaceoneday.org,,A day of peace. It seems lovely and hopeful to those of us lucky enough to live in peace already. But to those living in war, a day of peace, a temporary cease-fire, is not only lovely, it's incredibly practical. On a day when no bullets fly, families can go to the clinic, mosquito nets can be given out, and kids who've known only war can learn what peace looks like, sounds like. In short, it's a window of opportunity to build peace. For the past 10 years, filmmaker Jeremy Gilley has been promoting September 21 as a true international day of ceasefire, a day to carry out humanitarian aid in the world's most dangerous zones. The practical challenge is huge, starting with how to convince both parties in a conflict to put down their weapons and trust the other side to do the same? But Gilley has recorded successes. For instance, on September 21, 2008, some 1.85 million children under 5 years old, in seven Afghan provinces where conflict has previously prevented access, were given a vaccine for polio.,On September 21, 2011, Gilley will start the 365-day-long countdown to Truce 2012, a hoped-for global day of guns-down ceasefire and worldwide action toward peace.
Dyan,deNapoli,The great penguin rescue,Penguin expert,thepenguinlady.com/,,While she was the Senior Penguin Aquarist at the New England Aquarium, Dyan deNapoli hand-raised dozens of penguin chicks, presented daily programs about penguins to aquarium visitors, and traveled the globe to work with penguin researchers in the field.,Now, as head of her own educational company, she frequently writes on penguin topics and has served as the onboard penguin expert and guest lecturer on cruise ships visiting the Galapagos Islands and Antarctica. She estimates she has taught about 250,000 people in the US and abroad about penguins.
Alex,Steffen,The shareable future of cities,Planetary futurist, AlexSteffen.com,,Do you ever wonder whether we should be optimistic or pessimistic about the future? If you want more reasons to think things may still turn out for the better, Alex Steffen's your man. He doesn't downplay the scope and scale of the problems we face. Instead, he shows that we have the tools within our grasp for meeting those massive challenges, if we have the will to use them. This isn't just hopeful thinking, either. Steffen uses real-world examples and big-picture research to show us that a brighter, greener future is ours to choose, and his work has earned him the ear of leading cities, corporations and philanthropic foundations. As the New York Time s said a recent profile, Alex Steffen lays out the blueprint for a successful century. After working as a journalist on four continents, Steffen co-founded and ran the online magazine Worldchanging.com from 2003-2010. In those seven years, he made Worldchanging one of the world's leading sustainability-related publications with an archive of almost 12,000 articles and a large global audience. He also edited an internationally best-selling book surveying innovative solutions to the planet's most pressing problems Worldchanging A User's Guide for the 21st Century . His most recent work is Carbon Zero , a book describing cities that create prosperity not climate change, accelerating their economies while reducing their climate emissions to zero. He is now at work on a new book and a television project. The big open secret about sustainability work, he recently told Design Observer magazine, 'is not how bad things are. It is how good things can get.,“His vision of the future isn't granola and porridge. It's what he calls 'bright green' creating and buying products and systems that are smart, sexy, sleek, and sustainable.” — Living on Earth
Eve,Ensler,Suddenly, my body,Playwright, activist,www.eveensler.org,,Inspired by intimate conversations with friends, Eve Ensler wrote The Vagina Monologues . The play recounts tender, funny, gripping and horrifying stories she gathered from hundreds of women about their bodies, their sexual experiences, and yes, their vaginas. Since its first staging in 1996, it has been translated into more than 45 languages, performed in more than 120 countries and re-created as an HBO film. The Vagina Monologues ' success allowed Ensler to create V-Day , a global activist movement to end violence against women and girls, which has so far raised $85 million to prevent violence and protect abused women. In February 2011, Ensler received the Isabelle Stephenson Tony Award for her philanthropic work. Ensler has also drawn praise for The Good Body , a play that cuts to women's obsession with their appearance, and her film What I Want My Words to Do to You , which portrays a writing group she leads at a correctional facility for women. Today, she continues to find new projects and push the envelope. Her latest play, I Am an Emotional Creature The Secret Life of Girls Around the World , hit the New York Times bestseller list and just wrapped a workshop production in Johannesburg -- nest stop is Paris and then Berkeley in June 2012.,“Eve is bringing women back, she's giving us our souls back.” — Glenn Close
Philip,Zimbardo,The demise of guys?,Psychologist, EverydayHeroism.org,,Philip Zimbardo knows what evil looks like. After serving as an expert witness during the Abu Ghraib trials, he wrote The Lucifer Effect Understanding How Good People Turn Evil . From Nazi comic books to the tactics of used-car salesmen, he explores a wealth of sources in trying to explain the psychology of evil .,A past president of the American Psychological Association and a professor emeritus at Stanford, Zimbardo retired in 2008 from lecturing, after 50 years of teaching his legendary introductory course in psychology . In addition to his work on evil and heroism, Zimbardo recently published The Time Paradox , exploring different cultural and personal perspectives on time. Still well-known for his controversial Stanford Prison Experiment, Zimbardo in his new research looks at the psychology of heroism . He asks, What pushes some people to become perpetrators of evil, while others act heroically on behalf of those in need?
Jessica,Green,Are we filtering the wrong microbes?,Engineer and biodiversity scientist,JessicaLeeGre+A1003en.com,,Jessica Green, a TED2010 Fellow and TED2011 Senior Fellow, is an engineer and ecologist who specializes in biodiversity theory and microbial systems. As a professor at both the University of Oregon and the Santa Fe Institute , she is the founding director of the innovative Biology and the Built Environment (BioBE) Center that bridges biology and architecture.,Green envisions a future with genomic-driven approaches to architectural design that promote sustainability, human health and well-being. She is spearheading efforts to model buildings as complex ecosystems that house trillions of diverse microorganisms interacting with each other, with humans, and with their environment. This framework uses next-generation sequencing technology to characterize the “built environment microbiome” and will offer site-specific design solutions to minimize the spread of infectious disease and maximize building energy efficiency.
Mark,Pagel,How language transformed humanity,Evolutionary biologist, reading.ac.uk/biologicalsciences,,Mark Pagel builds statistical models to examine the evolutionary processes imprinted in human behavior, from genomics to the emergence of complex systems -- to culture. His latest work examines the parallels between linguistic and biological evolution by applying methods of phylogenetics, or the study of evolutionary relatedness among groups, essentially viewing language as a culturally transmitted replicator with many of the same properties we find in genes. He’s looking for patterns in the rates of evolution of language elements, and hoping to find the social factors that influence trends of language evolution. At the University of Reading, Pagel heads the Evolution Laboratory in the biology department, where he explores such questions as, Why would humans evolve a system of communication that prevents them with communicating with other members of the same species? He has used statistical methods to reconstruct features of dinosaur genomes, and to infer ancestral features of genes and proteins.,He says Just as we have highly conserved genes, we have highly conserved words. Language shows a truly remarkable fidelity.
Harald,Haas,Wireless data from every light bulb,Communications technology innovator, www.see.ed.ac.uk/~hxh,,Imagine using your car headlights to transmit data ... or surfing the web safely on a plane, tethered only by a line of sight. Harald Haas is working on it. A professor of engineering at Edinburgh University, Haas has long been studying ways to communicate electronic data signals, designing modulation techniques that pack more data onto existing networks. But his latest work leaps beyond wires and radio waves to transmit data via an LED bulb that glows and darkens faster than the human eye can see. The system, which he's calling D-Light, uses a mathematical trick called OFDM (orthogonal frequency division multiplexing), which allows it to vary the intensity of the LED's output at a very fast rate, invisible to the human eye (for the eye, the bulb would simply be on and providing light). The signal can be picked up by simple receivers. As of now, Haas is reporting data rates of up to 10 MBit/s per second (faster than a typical broadband connection), and 100 MBit/s by the end of this year and possibly up to 1 GB in the future.,He says It should be so cheap that it’s everywhere. Using the visible light spectrum, which comes for free, you can piggy-back existing wireless services on the back of lighting equipment.
Adam,Ostrow,After your final status update,Journalist,mashable.com/people/adamostrow,,Adam Ostrow is a new media entrepreneur and commentator. As editor in chief at Mashable , he is responsible for the editorial management and direction of one of the most widely read independent news sites in the world, covering the latest technologies, trends, and individuals driving the current evolution of the Web. Since joining Mashable in 2007, Ostrow has contributed more than 2,500 articles, and under his leadership the site’s audience has grown more than tenfold to 13 million unique visitors per month, with more than 3.6 million followers across social media sites as of June 2011. Ostrow has been frequently quoted by numerous mainstream media outlets including The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, USA Today and The Times of London among others. He is a frequent guest on CNN, Bloomberg and NPR.,
Julian,Treasure,5 ways to listen better,Sound consultant,JulianTreasure.com,,Julian Treasure is the chair of the Sound Agency , a firm that advises worldwide businesses -- offices, retailers, hotels -- on how to use sound. He asks us to pay attention to the sounds that surround us . How do they make us feel productive, stressed, energized, acquisitive?,Treasure is the author of the book Sound Business and keeps a blog by the same name that ruminates on aural matters (and offers a nice day-by-day writeup of TEDGlobal 2009). In the early 1980s, Treasure was the drummer for the Fall-influenced band Transmitters .
Josette,Sheeran,Ending hunger now,Anti-hunger leader, wfp.org,,When Josette Sheeran was the executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme, based in Rome, she oversaw the largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger around the globe. Every year, the program feeds more than 90 million people, including victims of war and natural disasters, families affected by HIV/AIDS, and schoolchildren in poor communities. Sheeran believes that hunger and poverty must and can be solved through both immediate actions and long-term policies. At the Millennium Development Goal Summit in 2010, she outlined 10 ways the world can end hunger. They include providing school meals, connecting small farmers to markets, empowering women and building the resiliency of vulnerable communities. Sheeran has a long history of helping others. Prior to joining the UN in 2007, Sheeran was the Under Secretary for Economic, Energy and Agricultural Affairs at the US Department of State, where she frequently focused on economic diplomacy to help emerging nations move toward self-sufficiency and prosperity. She put together several initiatives to bring US aid to the Middle East. She also served as Deputy US Trade Representative, helping African nations develop their trade capacity.,She says I think we can, in our lifetime, win the battle against hunger because we now have the science, technology, know-how, and the logistics to be able to meet hunger where it comes. Those pictures of children with swollen bellies will be a thing of history.
Paul,Bloom,The origins of pleasure,Psychologist,pantheon.yale.edu/~pb85/Paul_Bloom.html,,In Paul Bloom’s last book, How Pleasure Works , he explores the often-mysterious enjoyment that people get out of experiences such as sex, food, art, and stories. His latest book, Just Babies , examines the nature and origins of good and evil. How do we decide what's fair and unfair? What is the relationship between emotion and rationality in our judgments of right and wrong? And how much of morality is present at birth? To answer these questions, he and his colleagues at Yale study how babies make moral decisions. (How do you present a moral quandary to a 6-month-old? Through simple, gamelike experiments that yield surprisingly adult-like results.),Paul Bloom is a passionate teacher of undergraduates, and his popular Introduction to Psychology 110 class has been released to the world through the Open Yale Courses program. He has recently completed a second MOOC, “Moralities of Everyday Life”, that introduced moral psychology to tens of thousands of students. And he also presents his research to a popular audience though articles in The Atlantic , The New Yorker , and The New York Times . Many of the projects he works on are student-initiated, and all of them, he notes, are strongly interdisciplinary, bringing in theory and research from areas such as cognitive, social, and developmental psychology, evolutionary theory, linguistics, theology and philosophy.
Geoffrey,West,The surprising math of cities and corporations,Theorist, santafe.edu,,Trained as a theoretical physicist, Geoffrey West has turned his analytical mind toward the inner workings of more concrete things, like ... animals. In a paper for Science in 1997, he and his team uncovered what he sees as a surprisingly universal law of biology — the way in which heart rate, size and energy consumption are related, consistently, across most living animals. (Though not all animals “There are always going to be people who say, ‘What about the crayfish?’  he says. “Well, what about it? Every fundamental law has exceptions. But you still need the law or else all you have is observations that don’t make sense.) A past president of the multidisciplinary Santa Fe Institute (after decades working in high-energy physics at Los Alamos and Stanford), West now studies the behavior and development of cities. In his newest work, he proposes that one simple number, population, can predict a stunning array of details about any city, from crime rate to economic activity. It's all about the plumbing, he says, the infrastructure that powers growth or dysfunction. His next target for study corporations.,He says Focusing on the differences [between cities] misses the point. Sure, there are differences, but different from what? We’ve found the what.
Rory,Stewart,Time to end the war in Afghanistan,Politician, rorystewart.co.uk,,Now the member of British Parliament for Penrith and the Border, in rural northwest England, Rory Stewart has led a fascinatingly broad life of public service. He joined the Foreign Office after school, then left to begin a years-long series of walks across the Muslim world. In 2002, his extraordinary walk across post-9/11 Afghanistan resulted in his first book, The Places in Between . After the invasion of Iraq in 2003, he served as a Deputy Governorate Co-Ordinator in Southern Iraq for the coalition forces, and later founded a charity in Kabul.,To secure his Conservative seat in Parliament, he went on a walking tour of Penrith, covering the entire county as he talked to voters. In 2008, Esquire called him one of the 75 most influential people of the 21st century.
Markus,Fischer,A robot that flies like a bird,Designer, Festo.com,,One of the oldest dreams of mankind is to fly like a bird. Many, from Leonardo da Vinci to contemporary research teams, tried to crack the code for the flight of birds, unsuccessfully. Until in 2011 the engineers of the Bionic Learning Network established by Festo , a German technology company, developed a flight model of an artificial bird that's capable of taking off and rising in the air by means of its flapping wings alone. It's called SmartBird. Markus Fischer is Festo's head of corporate design, where he's responsible for a wide array of initiatives. He established the Bionic Learning Network in 2006. SmartBird is inspired by the herring gull . The wings not only beat up and down but twist like those of a real bird -- and seeing it fly leaves no doubt it's a perfect technical imitation of the natural model, just bigger. (Even birds think so .) Its wingspan is almost two meters, while its carbon-fiber structure weighs only 450 grams.,Fischer says We learned from the birds how to move the wings, but also the need to be very energy efficient.
Kevin,Slavin,How algorithms shape our world,Algoworld expert,about.me/slavin,,Are you addicted to the dead-simple numbers game Drop 7 or Facebook’s Parking Wars? Blame Kevin Slavin and the game development company he co-founded in 2005, Area/Code, which makes clever game entertainments that enter the fabric of reality.,All this fun is powered by algorithms -- as, increasingly, is our daily life. From the Google algorithms to the algos that give you “recommendations” online to those that automatically play the stock markets (and sometimes crash them) we may not realize it, but we live in the algoworld.
Thandie,Newton,Embracing otherness, embracing myself,Actor,thandiekay.com/,,Filmgoers first encountered Thandie Newton in the 1991 film Flirting , a tender and skin-crawlingly honest film about young love and budding identity. In her career since then, she’s brought that same intimate touch even to big Hollywood films (she was the moral center of Mission Impossible II , for instance, and the quiet heart of the head-banging 2012 ), while maintaining a strong sideline in art films, like the acclaimed Crash and last year’s adaptation of Ntozake Shange’s For colored girls ... Born in England, her mother is Zimbabwean, and Newton is active in nonprofit work across the African continent. In 2008, she visited Mali for a campaign to bring clean water to six African nations, and as a V Day board member, Newton visited the Congo earlier this year to raise awareness of the chronic issue of sexual violence toward women and girls.,“Thandie Newton can boast that rarest of combinations - leading-actress looks with a character-actress CV.” — Telegraph
Mikko,Hypponen,Fighting viruses, defending the net,Cybersecurity expert, mikko.hypponen.com,,The chief research officer at F-Secure Corporation in Finland, Mikko Hypponen has led his team through some of the largest computer virus outbreaks in history. His team took down the world-wide network used by the Sobig.F worm. He was the first to warn the world about the Sasser outbreak, and he has done classified briefings on the operation of the Stuxnet worm -- a hugely complex worm designed to sabotage Iranian nuclear enrichment facilities. As a few hundred million more Internet users join the web from India and China and elsewhere, and as governments and corporations become more sophisticated at using viruses as weapons, Hypponen asks, what's next? Who will be at the front defending the world’s networks from malicious software? He says It's more than unsettling to realize there are large companies out there developing backdoors, exploits and trojans.,Even more unsettling revelations this year that the United States' NSA is conducting widespread digital surveillance of both US citizens and anyone whose data passes through a US entity, and that it has actively sabotaged encryption algorithms. Hypponen has become one of the most outspoken critics of the agency's programs and asks us all Why are we so willing to hand over digital privacy?
Nadia,Al-Sakkaf,See Yemen through my eyes,Journalist,www.jpost.com/.../Interview-Yemen-Times-editor-Na,,Nadia Al-Sakkaf became the chief editor of the Yemen Times , the country's first and most widely read independent English-language newspaper, in March 2005, and quickly became a leading voice in Yemen and worldwide media on issues of media, gender, development and politics. During the May 2011 leadership crisis in Yemen, Al-Sakkaf and her organization were vital in reporting the news and putting the political situation in context for the wider world. And as the crisis rolls on, the role of an independent press becomes even more vital. The Yemen Times has reporters on the ground in Sana'a, Taiz, Aden and Hodeida covering the uprising.,Under Al-Sakkaf's leadership, the Yemen Times has also created several publications -- especially those for the advocacy of women’s participation in politics, such as Breaking the Stereotype, a book on Yemeni women's experience as political candidates in elections.
Tim,Harford,Trial, error and the God complex,Undercover economist,timharford.com,,In the Undercover Economist column he writes for the Financial Times , Tim Harford looks at familiar situations in unfamiliar ways and explains the fundamental principles of the modern economy. He illuminates them with clear writing and a variety of examples borrowed from daily life.,His new book, Adapt Why Success Always Starts With Failure , argues that the world has become far too unpredictable and complex for today's challenges to be tackled with ready-made solutions and expert opinions. Instead, Harford suggests, we need to learn to embrace failure and to constantly adapt, to improvise rather than plan, to work from the bottom up rather than the top down. He also presents the BBC radio series More or Less , a rare broadcast program devoted, as he says, to the powerful, sometimes beautiful, often abused but ever ubiquitous world of numbers.
Maajid,Nawaz,A global culture to fight extremism,Anti-extremism activist, quilliamfoundation.org,,As a teenager, British-born Maajid Nawaz was recruited to the global Islamist party Hizb ut-Tahrir, whose goal, broadly put, is to unite all Muslim countries into one caliphate ruled by Islamic law. He spent more than a decade there, rising into its leadership, until he was sentenced to four years in an Egyptian prison for belonging to the group. But he left prison feeling that Hizb ut-Tahrir was hijacking Islam for political purposes and that its aims were dangerously similar to the aims of fascism. While remaining a Muslim, he was no longer an Islamist. His goal now is to help Muslims in the West engage in their current political frameworks, while encouraging non-Western Muslims to work for a democratic culture that values peace and women’s rights. In the UK, he co-founded Quilliam , a think-tank that engages in “counter-Islamist thought-generating” -- looking for new narratives of citizenship, identity and belonging in a globalized world.,He says I can now say that the more I learnt about Islam, the more tolerant I became.
Rebecca,MacKinnon,Let's take back the Internet!,Media activist, rconversation.blogs.com,,As we push more and more of our social lives online, should we be (and how should we be) regulating these networks? Is there a human rights penalty we pay for trusting basic human connection to the Internet? As a Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation, Rebecca MacKinnon looks at these big questions in her upcoming book, Consent of the Networked , “a treatise on the future of liberty in the Internet age.” A former head of CNN’s Beijing and Tokyo bureaus, MacKinnon is an expert on Chinese Internet censorship. She’s one of the founders (with Ethan Zuckerman) of the Global Voices Online blog network, which aggregates and translates news around the world that might otherwise go unheard.Follw her tweets at @RMack .,She says The Egyptian Revolution makes it clear that digital technologies play a powerful role in global politics. But we should expect that role to be unpredictable.
Nina,Tandon,Caring for engineered tissue,Tissue engineering researcher,ninatandon.co/,,Nina Tandon studies electrical signaling in the context of tissue engineering, with the goal of creating “spare parts” for human implantation and/or disease models. After receiving a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Cooper Union, Nina worked on an electronic nose used to “smell” lung cancer as a Fulbright scholar in Rome. She studied electrical stimulation for cardiac tissue engineering at MIT and Columbia, and now continues her research on electrical stimulation for broader tissue-engineering applications. Tandon was a 2011 TED Fellow and a 2012 Senior Fellow.,“I love pointing out to my students that the cable equations we use to analyze transmission along nerves are the same ones developed for the transatlantic cable.” — Nina Tandon
Simon,Lewis,Don't take consciousness for granted,Author, producer,www.simonlewiswriter.com/,,Born in London, Simon Lewis is a film and television producer and author. After earning law degrees from Christ's College Cambridge and Boalt Hall, Berkeley, Lewis moved to Los Angeles, where his Hollywood experience includes managing writers, directors and stars, as well as producing Look Who's Talking, critically acclaimed films such as The Chocolate War , the Emmy-winning international co-production for HBO and ITV Central A Month of Sundays (Age Old Friends) , and variety specials starring Howie Mandel.,He's the author of Rise and Shine , a memoir that uses his personal story -- of recovery from coma -- to illustrate deep and universal insights about consciousness itself. An acclaimed author, speaker and commentator, Lewis uses creative visualizations that fuse cutting-edge medicine, scientific research and digital art to illustrate solutions to society’s most pressing problem the erosion of consciousness and need for solutions to nurture and grow our minds through cognitive and other therapies.
Jonathan,Drori,The beautiful tricks of flowers,Educator,www.ravensbourne.ac.uk/staff/jonathan-drori-cbe/,,Jonathan Drori has dedicated his career to media and learning. As the Head of Commissioning for BBC Online, he led the effort to create bbc.co.uk, the online face of the BBC (an effort he recalls fondly ). He came to the web from the TV side of the BBC, where as an editor and producer he headed up dozens of television series on science, education and the arts.,After almost two decades at the BBC, he's now a director at Changing Media Ltd., a media and education consultancy, and is a visiting professor at University of Bristol, where he studies educational media and misperceptions in science . He continues to executive produce the occasional TV series, including 2004's award-winning The DNA Story and 2009's Great Sperm Race. He is on the boards of the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Woodland Trust.
Nathan,Myhrvold,Cooking as never seen before,Polymath,www.nathanmyhrvold.com/,,Since leaving his post as Microsoft's Chief Technology Officer in 1999 (with fortune in tow), Nathan Myhrvold has been a professional exemplar of the spirit of the Renaissance Man, proudly following his interests wherever they've led. His dispersed passions have triggered an impressive list of accomplishments, including world barbecue championships, major archeological finds (several Tyrannosaurus rex skeletons), prize-winning wildlife photography , building a section of Babbage's Difference Engine #2, s, and a new and consuming interest in the sous-vide cooking technique . Malcolm Gladwell's 2008 New Yorker profile of him revealed an impish but truly inspired character whose latest company, Intellectual Ventures -- which brainstorms and patents a wide array of inventions -- has been accused in some quarters of acting like a 'patent troll' but is described by Myhrvold as a disruptive organization providing an efficient way for patent holders to get paid for the inventions they own, and... for technology companies to gain easy access to the invention rights they need. After funding big-vision projects such as the Allen Telescope Array , exploring active volcanoes and investigating penguin digestion, Myhrvold insists that his hobbies aren't as discursive as they seem. They do have a common denominator, after all him.,“He is gregarious, enthusiastic, and nerdy on an epic scale.” — Malcolm Gladwell
Matt,Cutts,Try something new for 30 days,Technologist,mattcutts.com/blog/,,Matt Cutts works on search at Google, specializing in search optimization. He's a friendly and public face for helping webmasters understand how Google's search actually works, making hundreds of videos that answer questions about SEO. (SearchEngineLand made this handy chart of all of them.) He's an advocate for cutting down on poor practice such as link spam . He also wrote the first version of SafeSearch, Google’s family filter.,Read about all of Cutts' 30 days adventures here >>
Robert,Hammond,Building a park in the sky,Friend of the High Line,www.roberthammond.com/,,Robert Hammond is the co-founder and former executive director of Friends of the High Line. He's worked as a consultant for a variety of entrepreneurial endeavors and nonprofits, including the Times Square Alliance, Alliance for the Arts and National Cooperative Bank (NCB).,Hammond is also a self-taught artist. From 2002 to 2005 he served as an Ex-Officio Trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He was awarded the Rome Prize from the American Academy in Rome in 2009.
Dave,deBronkart,Meet e-Patient Dave,e-Patient,www.epatientdave.com/,,David deBronkart, better known as “e-patient Dave,” was diagnosed in January 2007 with kidney cancer at a very late stage. Odds were stacked against him, with tumors in both lungs, several bones and muscle tissue. He received great treatment, and was able to fight through and win the battle over his cancer. His last treatment was July 23, 2007, and by September it was clear he’d beaten the disease.,deBronkart is now actively engaged in opening health care information directly to patients on an unprecedented level, thus creating a new dynamic in how information is delivered, accessed and used by the patient.
Rajesh,Rao,A Rosetta Stone for a lost language,Computational neuroscientist,cs.washington.edu/homes/rao,,Rajesh Rao is looking for the computational principles underlying the brain's remarkable ability to learn, process and store information -- hoping to apply this knowledge to the task of building adaptive robotic systems and artificially intelligent agents.,Some of the questions that motivate his research include How does the brain learn efficient representations of novel objects and events occurring in the natural environment? What are the algorithms that allow useful sensorimotor routines and behaviors to be learned? What computational mechanisms allow the brain to adapt to changing circumstances and remain fault-tolerant and robust?
Emiliano,Salinas,A civil response to violence,Community activist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/emiliano_salinas,,Emiliano Salinas is the vice president of Prorsus Capital, an investment fund that promotes ethical and innovative projects in Mexico. He's general coordinator of Movimiento Inlak'ech por la Paz, A.C. (Inlak'ech Peace Movement), a civil initiative, founded by scientist and humanist Keith Raniere, that seeks to restore peace in Mexico by strengthening its society to transform violence with compassion.,
Joshua,Walters,On being just crazy enough,Comedian, activist, thejoshuawalters.com,,Joshua Walters is a comedian, poet, educator and performer. He incorporates elements of spoken word and beatbox into his shows in a mash-up of comedy, intimate reflection and unpredictable antics. In the last two years, Walters has performed at theaters and universities throughout North America, Europe and the Middle East.,His eclectic combination of performance disciplines and activity as an educator in mental health has given Walters a national platform and audience. In 2002, Walters co-founded the DBSA (Depression Bipolar Support Alliance) Young Adults Chapter in San Francisco, one of the few support groups specifically for mentally ill young adults in the country. As a facilitator, Walters developed humor to address the subject of mental illness, reframing it as a positive. Walters speaks as a mental health educator and has engaged in mental health advocacy at conventions and in classrooms nationwide.
Honor,Harger,A history of the universe in sound,Artist,https//honorharger.wordpress.com/,,Honor Harger is a New Zealand-born artist and curator who has a particular interest in artistic uses of technologies. She's the director of Lighthouse, an arts agency in Brighton, UK. Her artistic practice is produced under the name r a d i o q u a l i a together with collaborator Adam Hyde. One of their main projects is Radio Astronomy , a radio station broadcasting sounds from space.,From a great interview with Harger from Lift '11
Jok,Church,A circle of caring,Cartoonist,makemagic.org/resume/,,Cartoonist Jok Church helps kids learn basic concepts of science and experimentation -- with a healthy dash of fun. He created his comic strip You Can with Beakman & Jax in 1991 for his local newspaper in Marin County, California -- inspired by a stint answering kids' letters for Lucasfilm. The comic strip does not answer readers' questions directly. Rather, it gives directions to do a thing, a procedure, an experiment to learn the answer. It's about learning by doing. Active. Not passive.,Six Beakman & Jax books are best-sellers. Church created the CBS television series Beakman's World based on the comic strip, and helped create the museum exhibit that has toured science centers and museums continually since 1998. He's also the designer of the new website for the artists Christo and Jeanne Claude .
Daniel,Tammet,Different ways of knowing,Linguist, educator, optimnem.co.uk,,Daniel Tammet is a writer, linguist and educator. He is the creator of Optimnem , a website that has provided language learning instruction to thousands around the globe. His 2006 memoir Born on a Blue Day describes his life with high-functioning autistic savant syndrome, his new book, Embracing the Wide Sky A Tour Across the Horizons of the Mind, is a personal and scientific exploration of how the brain works and the differences and similarities between savant and non-savant minds. Tammet set a European record on March 14, 2004, when he recited the mathematical constant pi (3.141...) to 22,514 decimal places from memory in a time of 5 hours, 9 minutes.,
Bill,Ford,A future beyond traffic gridlock,Executive chair, Ford Motor Co.,https//media.ford.com/.../fordmedia/.../william-cla...,,William Clay Ford Jr. is the executive chair of the Ford Motor Company, founded by his great-grandfather, Henry Ford, in Detroit. This massive company found great success selling cars to the world. Now, Ford is looking toward a future that's not simply about selling more and more cars. Ford looks to a future where cars are greener and cleaner, move more efficiently on better, smarter road systems -- and sometimes are replaced by mass transit and other forms of mobility.,Ford joined Ford Motor Company in 1979 as a product planning analyst. He subsequently held a variety of positions in manufacturing, sales, marketing, product development and finance. During the breakthrough 1982 Ford-United Auto Workers labor talks, which launched the employee involvement movement that revolutionized the industry, he served on the company’s National Bargaining Team.
Maya,Beiser,A cello with many voices,Cellist, mayabeiser.com,,The founding cellist of the Bang on a Can All Stars, cellist Maya Beiser is a frequent collaborator with artists across the spectrum of creativity -- visual artists such as Shirin Neshat, video artists such as Irit Batsry -- to produce groundbreaking multimedia concerts.,Composers who write for her follow her passion for melding influences -- Middle Eastern sounds, classic and modern tones. Her newest project, Elsewhere , is described as a CELLoOpera. Elsewhere is an imaginative retelling of the Biblical legend of Lot's wife, created by the dream team of Maya, director Robert Woodruff, composers Missy Mazzoli and Eve Beglarian, writer Erin Cressida Wilson, and choreographer Karole Armitage
Onyx,Ashanti,This is beatjazz,Beatjazz inventor and controllerist,http//www.onyx-ashanti.com,,Onyx Ashanti is a musician, geek, open-source advocate, Maker, collaborator ... and we come back around again to musician. The intrumentation he has created fuses technique and technology into a full-body musical system, playable with hands, arms, mouth and body. As he says,I am what can only be described as a cyborg musician. in other words, the music i create live, can not be replicated without technology. My music is called Beatjazz. It is a mix of sound design, live looping and jazz improvisation. My instrument of choice over the years has been a Yamaha Wind MIDI controller, but now the limitations have started to stunt the growth of this new form, so i designed an instrument that can take it into future.
Camille,Seaman,Haunting photos of polar ice,Photographer, camilleseaman.com,,Camille Seaman takes photographs all over the world using digital and film cameras in multiple formats. Since 2003, her work has concentrated on the fragile environment of the polar regions. Her current project concerns the beauty of natural environments in Siberia.,Seaman's photographs have been published in Newsweek, Outside, Zeit Wissen, Men's Journal and more, and she has self-published many books on themes like “My China” and “ Melting Away Polar Images ” through Fastback Creative Books, a company that she co-founded. In 2008, she was honored with a one-person exhibition, The Last Iceberg , at the National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC.
Steve,Keil,A manifesto for play, for Bulgaria and beyond,Entrepreneur,www.stevekeil.com/about-steve/,,Steve Keil is an entrepreneur whose passion is to create companies in which people are inspired to make their mark with their ideas and imagination. He believes that business leaders are responsible for creating such an environment, by including social and environmental objectives in their personal and business ethics. He has taught at the American College, written for various publications, and currently teaches at the University of Sofia.,He says I don't like plastic bottles.
Shea,Hembrey,How I became 100 artists,Artist and curator, sheahembrey.com,,Shea Hembrey's art imitates nature’s forms, in an attempt to appreciate how humans have always appropriated and learned from forms in nature. An early fascination with birds (as a teenager, he was a licensed breeder of migratory waterfowl), led to Mirror Nests, a series of metal replicas of bird nests exhibited at Cornell’s Lab of Ornithology observatory. Hembrey works with focused concentration on a single project, letting his research into his subject direct the media and methods of the final product. He has produced works on folk and faith healing inspired by his healer grandfather, and his view of art was profoundly changed while studying Maori art while he was a Rotary International Ambassadorial Scholar to New Zealand.,“I always thought birds were amazing crafters, but after this project I realize how fully amazed I should be.” — Shea Hembrey, Birdscope
Daniel,Kraft,Medicine's future? There's an app for that,Physician scientist,singularityu.org/bio/daniel-kraft,,Daniel Kraft is a Stanford- and Harvard-trained physician-scientist with over 20 years of experience in clinical practice, biomedical research and innovation. Dr. Kraft chairs the Medicine track for Singularity University and is Executive Director and curator for the FutureMed, a program which explores convergent, exponentially developing technologies and their potential in biomedicine and healthcare. Dr. Kraft is board certified in both Internal Medicine and Pediatrics following residency at the Massachusetts General Hospital, and completed Stanford fellowships in hematology/oncology & bone marrow transplantation, and extensive research in stem cell biology and regenerative medicine. He has multiple scientific publications, medical device, immunology and stem cell-related patents through faculty positions with Stanford University School of Medicine and as clinical faculty for the pediatric bone marrow transplantation service at University of California San Francisco. Dr. Kraft recently founded IntelliMedicine, focused on connected, data driven, and integrated personalized medicine. He is the inventor of the MarrowMiner, an FDA approved device for the minimally invasive harvest of bone marrow, and founded RegenMed Systems, a company developing technologies to enable adult stem cell based regenerative therapies. Daniel is an avid pilot and serves as a officer and flight surgeon with an F-16 Squadron in the California Air National Guard. He has conducted research on aerospace medicine that was published with NASA, with whom he was a finalist for astronaut selection.,
JD,Schramm,Break the silence for suicide attempt survivors,Communicator,https//www.gsb.stanford.edu/.../jd-.,,A seasoned communicator and entrepreneur, JD Schramm teaches the theoretical and practical aspects of effective communication as a lecturer in management at Stanford's Graduate School of Business. At Stanford, he has led the development and launch of the Mastery in Communication Initiative to help GSB students improve their mastery of speaking and writing. He says I cultivate dreams in myself and others by building bridges, inspiring greatness, encouraging growth, and living passionately.,
Alice,Dreger,Is anatomy destiny?,Historian, alicedreger.com,,Alice Dreger is a professor of clinical medical humanities and bioethics at the Feinberg School of Medicine of Northwestern University in Chicago. She describes her focus as social justice work in medicine and science through research, writing, speaking and advocacy. She's written several books that study subjects on the edge of norm-challenging bodies, including One of Us Conjoined Twins and the Future of Normal and Hermaphrodites and the Medical Invention of Sex and Intersex in the Age of Ethics .,She says The question that has motivated many of my projects is this Why not change minds instead of bodies?
Paul,Romer,The world's first charter city?,New-growth economist, chartercities.org,,Stanford economist Paul Romer believes in the power of ideas. He first studied how to speed up the discovery and implementation of new technologies. But to address the big problems we'll face this century -- insecurity, harm to the environment, global poverty -- new technologies will not be enough. We must also speed up the discovery and implementation of new rules, of new ideas about how people interact. Throughout human history, big improvements in systems of rules took place when new governments entered the scene. In today's world, this process has been largely shut down. To bring it back to life, Romer proposes that we create new cities where people can go to escape from bad rules and opt in to new and better ones. With better rules, people can be safe, self-interest can protect the environment, and investment can bring families all the resources that the modern world has to offer.,“Paul Romer has had a massive and profound impact on modern economic thinking and policymaking. ... [His work] transforms economics from a ‘dismal science' that describes a world of scarcity and diminishing returns into a discipline that reveals a path toward constant improvement and unlimited potential. Ideas, in Romer's formulation, really do have consequences. Big ones.” — ReasonOnline
Janet,Echelman,Taking imagination seriously,Artist, echelman.com,,Janet Echelman builds living, breathing sculpture environments that respond to the forces of nature — wind, water and light— and become inviting focal points for civic life. Exploring the potential of unlikely materials, from fishing net to atomized water particles, Echelman combines ancient craft with cutting-edge technology to create her permanent sculpture at the scale of buildings. Experiential in nature, the result is sculpture that shifts from being an object you look at, to something you can get lost in. Recent prominent works include “Her Secret is Patience”, which spans two city blocks in downtown Phoenix, “Water Sky Garden”, which premiered for the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics, and “She Changes”, which transformed a waterfront plaza in Porto, Portugal. Her newest commission creates a “Zone of Recomposure” in the new Terminal 2 at San Francisco International Airport. Upcoming projects include the remaking of Dilworth Plaza in front of Philadelphia City Hall -- turning it into a garden of dry-mist.,“Matching artistic vision with technical innovation, Janet Echelman offers new ideas for public art.” — Architectural Record
Jack,Horner,Building a dinosaur from a chicken,Dinosaur digger,www.montana.edu/earthsciences/.../horner.html,,Paleontologist Jack Horner discovered the first dinosaur eggs in the Western Hemisphere, the first evidence of dinosaur colonial nesting, the first evidence of parental care among dinosaurs, and the first dinosaur embryos.,Horner's research covers a wide range of topics about dinosaurs, including their behavior, physiology, ecology and evolution. Due to struggles with the learning disability, dyslexia, Horner does not hold a formal college degree but was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Montana in 1986. Also in 1986 he was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship.
Damon,Horowitz,We need a moral operating system,Philosopher, entrepreneur,www.tedxsv.org/?page_id=1205,,Damon Horowitz is a philosophy professor and serial entrepreneur. He recently joined Google as In-House Philosopher / Director of Engineering, heading development of several initiatives involving social and search. He came to Google from Aardvark, the social search engine, where he was co-founder and CTO, overseeing product development and research strategy. Prior to Aardvark, Horowitz built several companies around applications of intelligent language processing. He co-founded Perspecta (acquired by Excite), was lead architect for Novation Biosciences (acquired by Agilent), and co-founded NewsDB (now Daylife).,Horowitz teaches courses in philosophy, cognitive science, and computer science at several institutions, including Stanford, NYU, University of Pennsylvania and San Quentin State Prison .
Jessi,Arrington,Wearing nothing new,Designer,LuckySoAndSo.com,,Jessi Arrington is a founder and owner of WORKSHOP, a designer firm in Brooklyn. Her favorite color is rainbow and her default answer is YES. She’s taught Design Fundamentals at Touro College and given guest lectures at NYU, she's a board member of AIGA/NY. Before co-founding WORKSHOP, she carried out branding for Brooklyn Brewery, Tomato Records and Lion Brand Yarn under the direction of Milton Glaser. She makes a hobby of wearing nothing new (except undies).,She blogs at LuckySoAndSo.com about design, consumption and color.
Aaron,O'Connell,Making sense of a visible quantum object,Physicist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/aaron_o_connell,,Growing up reading philosophy, playing guitar, and generally not thinking about science, Aaron O’Connell never expected to revolutionize the world of physics. But an inspiring stuffed-monkey-shot-from-a-cannon demonstration and a series of positive research experiences as an undergraduate propelled him to graduate school at UCSB. While there, in an experiment remarkable both for its conceptual simplicity and technical difficulty, O’Connell was the first person to measure quantum effects in an object large enough to see with the naked eye. Named Breakthrough of the year by Science Magazine , the experiment shattered the previous record for the largest quantum object, showing decisively that there is no hard line between the quantum and everyday worlds.,“Dead silence — and then roaring applause. I still remember that brief moment that revealed the astonishment of everyone in the audience.” — Markus Aspelmeyer, Nature
Stefan,Sagmeister,7 rules for making more happiness,Graphic designer,www.sagmeisterwalsh.com/,,Stefan Sagmeister is no mere commercial gun for hire. Sure, he's created eye-catching graphics for clients including the Rolling Stones and Lou Reed, but he pours his heart and soul into every piece of work. His design work is at once timeless and of the moment, and his painstaking attention to the smallest details creates work that offers something new every time you look at it. While a sense of humor invariably surfaces in his designs, Sagmeister is nonetheless very serious about his work, his intimate approach and sincere thoughtfulness elevate his desig n. A genuine maverick, Sagmeister achieved notoriety in the 1990s as the designer who self-harmed in the name of craft He created a poster advertising a speaking engagement by carving the salient details onto his torso.,“Sagmeister's CD package designs are what poetry is to prose distilled, intense, cunning, evocative and utterly complete. His intentions have set a new standard.” — I.D. Magazine
Dennis,Hong,Making a car for blind drivers,Roboticist, RoMeLa.com,,As director of a groundbreaking robotics lab, Dennis Hong guides his team of students through projects on robot locomotion and mechanism design , creating award-winning humanoid robots like DARwIn (Dynamic Anthropomorphic Robot with Intelligence). His team is known as RoMeLa (Robotics & Mechanisms Laboratory) and operates at Virginia Tech. Hong has also pioneered various innovations in soft-body robots , using a “whole-skin locomotion” as inspired by amoebae. Marrying robotics with biochemistry, he has been able to generate new types of motion with these ingenious forms. For his contributions to the field, Hong was selected as a NASA Summer Faculty Fellow in 2005, given the CAREER award by the National Science Foundation in 2007 and in 2009, named as one of Popular Science 's Brilliant 10. He is also a gourmet chef and a magician, performing shows for charity and lecturing on the science of magic.,“I still cannot forget the mind-blowing sensation when I first watched the movie Star Wars. I was fascinated by R2D2 and C-3PO. Since then, I decided to become a robot scientist and never changed my mind.” — Dennis Hong
Malcolm,McLaren,Authentic creativity vs. karaoke culture,Provocateur,www.malcolmmclaren.com/,,Malcolm McLaren provoked reaction. He's probably best known for creating the Sex Pistols in 1976, arguably the first globally popular punk band. Deliberately confrontational and political (in both lyrics and style), the Sex Pistols drew on powerful undercurrents of crankiness, anarchy and dissatisfaction with '70s Britain -- and with one album, two hit singles and a stopped-short US tour, fired up a global movement that continues to this day in myriad forms. Music heads will know that McLaren's next stop was to manage Adam Ant, while cutting away Ant's original band and turning them into Bow Wow Wow.,McLaren's restless mind then turned to early hip-hop, with its mixing, collaging and powerful shared creativity. His singles Buffalo Gals (which mixed scratching and square-dance calling) and Double Dutch were early steps at making hip-hop as ubiquitous as punk. And he was championing 8-bit music -- at the intersection of music and videogame culture -- as early as 2003.
Robert,Gupta,On violin and cello, Passacaglia,Violinist,www.violinist.com/directory/bio.cfm?member=rgupta,,Violinist Robert Vijay Gupta joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic at the age of 19. He made his solo debut, at age 11, with the Israel Philharmonic under Zubin Mehta. He has a Master's in music from Yale. But his undergraduate degree? Pre-med. As an undergrad, Gupta was part of several research projects in neuro- and neurodegenerative biology. He held Research Assistant positions at CUNY Hunter College in New York City, where he worked on spinal cord neuronal regeneration, and at the Harvard Institutes of Medicine Center for Neurologic Diseases, where he studied the biochemical pathology of Parkinson's disease.,Gupta is passionate about education and outreach, both as a musician and as an activist for mental health issues. He has the privilege of working with Nathaniel Ayers, the brilliant, schizophrenic musician featured in The Soloist, as his violin teacher.
Mustafa,Akyol,Faith versus tradition in Islam,Journalist, thewhitepath.com,“Only by accepting a secular state, [Akyol] powerfully asserts, can Islamic societies thrive. Persuasive and inspiring, Islam without Extremes offers a desperately needed intellectual basis for the reconcilability of Islam and religious, political, economic, and social freedoms.” — Islam without Extremes jacket cover,
Shirin,Neshat,Art in exile,Iranian visual artist,gladstonegallery.com/neshat.asp,,Shirin Neshat is among the best-known Persian artists in the Western world. She has lived in the United States, in self-imposed exile from her native Iran, for most of her adult life. This experience, of being caught between two cultures, dominates Neshat’s creative work each of her pieces offers a glimpse into the complex social, religious and political realities that shape her identity—and the identities of Muslim women worldwide. Neshat’s provocative photographs, videos and multimedia installations have resonated with the curators of many major international art exhibitions, including the XLVIII Venice Biennale, where she won the top prize in 1999. Her ?rst feature ?lm, Women Without Men , tells the stories of four women struggling to escape oppression in Tehran. It won her the Silver Lion for best director at the 2010 Venice Film Festival.,“Walk into a Shirin Neshat film installation and the images seize you big, memorable, physically beautiful, exploring the role of women in Islamic society in terms of cinematic poetry, so that even the stifling chador becomes powerfully expressive.” — The New York Times, July 15, 2002
Bruce,Aylward,How we'll stop polio for good,Epidemiologist,PolioEradication.com,,A Canadian physician and epidemiologist who has authored some 100 peer-reviewed articles and chapters, Bruce Aylward is an expert on infectious diseases. He joined the World Health Organization in 1992 and worked in the field for seven years on national immunization programs for measles, tetanus and hepatitis in the Middle East, Africa and Asia.,Aylward has overseen and managed the scale-up of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative since 1998, during which time the program expanded to operate in every country of the world, the annual global budget increased to $700 million a year, polio-funded staff deployed by WHO grew to over 3,500 people worldwide, and new monovalent oral poliovirus vaccines were developed for the programme. In 2014, only three countries remained polio-endemic.
Aaron,Koblin,Visualizing ourselves ... with crowd-sourced data,Data artist, aaronkoblin.com,,Aaron Koblin finds art through the unlikely confluence of massive data sets and personal intimacy. His work ranges from animating the paths of every North American airline flight, to using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk crowdsourcing platform to pay workers to “draw a sheep facing left,” which were then placed in The Sheep Market. Koblin was creative director for Johnny Cash's final music video, Ain't No Grave, and worked on Radiohead’s video “House of Cards,” both of which received a Grammy nomination. He is now the Creative Director of the Data Arts team in Google's Creative Lab. His team collaborated with Arcade Fire to produce an online music video that allows viewers to incorporate images of their home neighborhood into the experience using Google Street View.,“He likes his data ‘super fun’ -- that is, messy.” — William Bostwick, Print Magazine
Improv,Everywhere,Gotta share!,Pranksters,improveverywhere.com,,Created in August 2001 by Charlie Todd, Improv Everywhere has executed over 100 missions involving tens of thousands of undercover agents. They've now pranked two conferences, TED2012 and Gel 2011.,The cast and credits for the TED mission
Terry,Moore,How to tie your shoes,Thinker,www.terrymoore.com/,,Terry Moore directs the Radius Foundation in New York, which, as its website says, seeks new ways of exploring and understanding dissimilar conceptual systems or paradigms -- scientific, religious, philosophical, and aesthetic -- with the aim to find a world view of more complete insight and innovation. The Radius Foundation is a forum for different views.,The foundation has published several works that examine the intersection of religion and metaphysics with science and social action.
Edith,Widder,The weird, wonderful world of bioluminescence,Marine biologist,www.teamorca.org/cfiles/about_edie.cfm,,A specialist in bioluminescence, Edith Widder helps design and invent new submersible instruments and equipment to study bioluminescence and enable unobtrusive observation of deep-sea environments. Her innovative tools for exploration have produced footage of rare and wonderful bioluminescent displays and never-before-seen denizens of the deep, including, most recently, the first video ever recorded of the giant squid, Architeuthis , in its natural habitat. In 2005 she founded the Ocean Research & Conservation Association (ORCA), which is dedicated to protecting aquatic ecosystems and the species they sustain through the development of innovative technologies and science-based conservation action., In an effort to protect and revitalize the ocean she loves she has been focusing on developing tools for finding and tracking pollution -- a major threat to all of our water ecosystems and ultimately to human health. She was awarded a MacArthur genius grant in 2006.,In 2012, Widder was among the team that filmed the giant squid ( Architeuthis ) for the first time in its home ocean.
Elliot,Krane,The mystery of chronic pain,Pediatric anesthesiologist,https//med.stanford.edu/.../elliot-.,,It's an awful problem to contemplate How do you help a young child in pain? As director of Pain Management Services at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford, Elliot Krane works on solving this problem, studying and treating kids who are undergoing surgeries, suffering from complications of diabetes -- and kids suffering neuropathic pain resulting from injury to the nervous system itself.,
Thomas,Heatherwick,Building the Seed Cathedral,Designer, heatherwick.com,,Thomas Heatherwick founded Heatherwick Studio in 1994 with his aim being to bring architecture, design and sculpture together within a single practice. On the team, architects, landscape architects, designers and engineers work from a combined studio and workshop, where concept development, detailing, prototyping and small-scale fabrication take place. The studio's work spans commercial and residential building projects, masterplanning and infrastructure schemes as well as high profile works of public art.,From his biography at the Design Museum 
Ed,Boyden,A light switch for neurons,Neuroengineer, syntheticneurobiology.org,,Working with an extraordinary array of tools -- from 3-D printers to lasers to flasks of algae -- Ed Boyden is creating new brains. A pioneer in the field of optogenetics, he is the founder and principal investigator of the synthetic neurobiology group at MIT.,Using a combination of lasers and genetic engineering, he implants brains with optical fibers that allow him to activate special proteins in specific neurons and see their connections. In addition to helping create detailed maps of brain circuitry, the engineering of these cells has been used to cure blindness in mice, and could point the way to cures for Parkinsons or Alzheimers, or to ways of connecting to the brain via prosthetics.
Leonard,Susskind,My friend Richard Feynman,Physicist,https//physics.stanford.edu/node/719,,Leonard Susskind is the Felix Bloch Professor of Physics at Stanford University. His research interests include string theory, quantum field theory, quantum statistical mechanics, and quantum cosmology. He received the Pregel Award from the New York Academy of Science (1975), and the J. J. Sakurai Prize of the American Physical Society (1998) for his pioneering contributions to hadronic string models, lattice gauge theories, quantum chromodynamics, and dynamical symmetry breaking. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and, since 2009, has been serving as Director of the Stanford Institute for Theoretical Physics.,He is a recent recipient of the Los Angeles Times Book Award in Science and Technology for The Black Hole War My Battle with Stephen Hawking to Make the World Safe for Quantum Mechanics.
Amit,Sood,Building a museum of museums on the web,Technologist,stressfree.org/,,Amit Sood is a Group Marketing Manager for Google, he's worked with the Android team in Mountain View and has led marketing efforts for Google's GEO products. His passion for art led him to initiate a  20 percent time  project to bring museums onto the web -- which turned into the ambitious new Art Project. He writes ,It started when a small group of us who were passionate about art got together to think about how we might use our technology to help museums make their art more accessible -- not just to regular museum-goers or those fortunate to have great galleries on their doorsteps, but to a whole new set of people who might otherwise never get to see the real thing up close. We're also lucky here to have access to technology like Picasa and App Engine and to have colleagues who love a challenge -- like building brand-new technology to enable Street View to go indoors!
Ron,Gutman,The hidden power of smiling,Entrepreneur,https//www.healthtap.com/who_we_are/team/ron_gutman,,Ron Gutman is the founder and CEO of HealthTap -- free mobile and online apps for immediate access to relevant, reliable and trusted health answers and tips from a network of over 38,000 U.S.-licensed doctors. He's responsible for the company's innovation, vision and product. Before this, he foundes and led an online consumer health company that developed the world's largest community of independent health writers, it was acquired in early 2009.,As a graduate student at Stanford, Gutman organized and led a multidisciplinary group of faculty and graduate students from the schools of Engineering, Medicine, Business, Psychology and Law to conduct research in personalized health and to design ways to help people live healthier, happier lives. He is an angel investor and advisor to health and technology companies such as Rock Health (the first Interactive Health Incubator) and Harvard Medical School's SMArt Initiative (Substitutable Medical Apps, reusable technologies). He's the organizer of TEDxSiliconValley .
Fiorenzo,Omenetto,Silk, the ancient material of the future,Biomedical engineer, http//ase.tufts.edu/biomedical/unolab/home.html,,Fiorenzo Omenetto is a Professor of Biomedical Engineering and leads the laboratory for Ultrafast Nonlinear Optics and Biophotonics at Tufts University and also holds an appointment in the Department of Physics. Formerly a J. Robert Oppenheimer Fellow at Los Alamos National Laboratory before joining Tufts, his research is focused on interdisciplinary themes that span nonlinear optics, nanostructured materials (such as photonic crystals and photonic crystal fibers), optofluidics and biopolymer based photonics. He has published over 100 papers and peer-review contributions across these various disciplines.,Since moving to Tufts at the end of 2005, he has proposed and pioneered (with David Kaplan) the use of silk as a material platform for photonics, optoelectronics and high-technology applications. This new research platform has recently been featured in MIT's Technology Review as one of the 2010 top ten technologies likely to change the world.
Paul,Nicklen,Tales of ice-bound wonderlands,Polar photographer, paulnicklen.com,,Paul Nicklen grew up one of only a few non-Inuit in an Inuit settlement on Baffin Island, Nunavut, Canada -- a childhood that taught him the patience, stamina and respect for nature required for his beat in the frigid climes of Earth’s polar regions. Best known for his vivid and intimate wildlife photos for National Geographic , Nicklen started out a biologist in the Northwest Territories, gathering data on such species as lynx, grizzlies, and polar bears. Today he bridges the gap between scientific research and the public, showing how fragile and fast-changing habitats are profoundly affecting wildlife. During the course of his workday Nicklen regularly comes face-to-face with fantastic creatures narwhals, Arctic foxes, elephant seals, and more. His most amazing experience? An underwater encounter with a leopard seal who for four days tried to feed him penguins through the mouth of his lens.,“When you get in the water with a wild animal, you're essentially giving yourself to that animal because, as humans, we're quite helpless and vulnerable in the water. You're at the seal's mercy. You're at the predator's mercy.” — Paul Nicklen, National Geographic
Louie,Schwartzberg,The hidden beauty of pollination,Filmmaker,movingart.com,,Louie Schwartzberg's career spans feature films, television shows, commercials and documentaries. His film Wings of Life , narrated by Meryl Streep, was released by Disneynature in April 2013, and his most recent film, Mysteries of the Unseen World , is a National Geographic 3D Imax that journeys into invisible worlds that are too slow, too fast, too small and too vast for the human eye to see.,Schwartzberg founded Moving Art to use the power of media to inspire and entertain through television programming, DVD products, and full-length motion picture and Imax films. His art is about breaking barriers, connecting with audiences, and telling stories that celebrate life and reveal the mysteries and wisdom of nature, people and places. Several of his film shorts have gone viral, including “Gratitude” and “Beauty of Pollination” with 36MM+ web views, and spawned related media (books, webinars, and more). Custom Ultra HD Moving Art pieces created by Schwartzberg can also be found in high-end hospitality venues around the world starting in 2014. For Schwartzberg, the greatest satisfaction is creating works that can have a positive effect on the future of the planet. “I hope my films inspire and open people’s hearts. Beauty is nature’s tool for survival – you protect what you love. If I can move enough people on an emotional level, I hope we can achieve the shift in consciousness we need to sustain and celebrate life.”
Sean,Carroll,Distant time and the hint of a multiverse,Physicist, cosmologist,seanbcarroll.com/,,Sean Carroll is a theoretical physicist at Caltech in Pasadena, California, where he researches theoretical aspects of cosmology, field theory and gravitation -- exploring the nature of fundamental physics by studying the structure and evolution of the universe. His book on cosmology and the arrow of time, From Eternity to Here The Quest for the Ultimate Theory of Time , was published in 2010. He keeps a regular blog at Cosmic Variance .,“For anyone who ever wondered about the nature of time and how it influences our universe, [From Here to Eternity] is a must read. It is beautifully written, lucid, and deep.” — Kip Thorne
Suzanne,Lee,Grow your own clothes,Designer, biocouture.co.uk,,Fashion designer Suzanne Lee directs the BioCouture research project, which sprang from an idea in her book Fashioning the Future Tomorrow’s Wardrobe , a seminal text on fashion and future technologies. Her research harnesses nature to propose a radical future fashion vision Can we grow a dress from a vat of liquid?,Using bacterial-cellulose, Lee aims to address pressing ecological and sustainability issues around fashion and beyond. A Senior Research Fellow at Central Saint Martins, University of the Arts London, she is working with scientists to investigate whether synthetic biology can engineer optimized organisms for growing future consumer products
Carlo,Ratti,Architecture that senses and responds,Architect and engineer,www.carloratti.com/,,Carlo Ratti is a civil engineer and architect who teaches at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he directs the SENSEable City Laboratory. This lab studies the built environment of cities -- from street grids to plumbing and garbage systems -- using new kinds of sensors and hand-held electronics that have transformed the way we can describe and understand cities.,Other projects flip this equation -- using data gathered from sensors to actually create dazzling new environments. The Digital Water Pavilion, for instance, reacts to visitors by parting a stream of water to let them visit. And a new project for the 2012 Olympics in London turns a pavilion building into a cloud of blinking interactive art.
Aicha,el-Wafi,The mothers who found forgiveness, friendship,9/11 mothers,theforgivenessproject.com/.../phyllis-rodriguez-a.,,Phyllis Rodriguez is an artist, a teacher and a social justice activist. On September 11, 2001, her son Greg died in the attacks on the World Trade Center. Rodriguez and her husband wrote an open letter,  Not in Our Son's Name , calling on President Bush to oppose a military response in Afghanistan.,Aicha el-Wafi is an activist with the French feminist group Ni Putes Ni Soumise , working with Muslim women. Her son, Zacarias Moussaoui, was tried in relation to the attacks on US soil, and faced the possibility of execution if convicted.
Eli,Pariser,Beware online filter bubbles,Organizer and author, elipariser.com,,Shortly after the September 11, 2001, attacks, Eli Pariser created a website calling for a multilateral approach to fighting terrorism. In the following weeks, over half a million people from 192 countries signed on, and Pariser rather unexpectedly became an online organizer. The website merged with MoveOn.org in November 2001, and Pariser -- then 20 years old -- joined the group to direct its foreign policy campaigns. He led what the New York Times Magazine called the mainstream arm of the peace movement -- tripling MoveOn's member base and demonstrating how large numbers of small donations could be mobilized through online engagement. In 2004, Pariser became executive director of MoveOn. Under his leadership, MoveOn.org Political Action has grown to 5 million members and raised over $120 million from millions of small donors to support advocacy campaigns and political candidates. Pariser focused MoveOn on online-to-offline organizing, developing phone-banking tools and precinct programs in 2004 and 2006 that laid the groundwork for Barack Obama's extraordinary web-powered campaign. In 2008, Pariser transitioned the Executive Director role at MoveOn to Justin Ruben and became President of MoveOn’s board, he's now a senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institute . His book The Filter Bubble is set for release May 12, 2011. In it, he asks how modern search tools -- the filter by which many of see the wider world -- are getting better and better and screening the wider world from us, by returning only the search results it thinks we want to see.,“When confronted with a list of results from Google, the average user (including myself until I read this article) tends to assume that the list is exhaustive. Not knowing that it isn't ... is equivalent to not having a choice. Depending on the quality of the search results, it can be said that I am being fed junk -- because I don't know I have other choices that Google filtered out.” — Aubrey Pek, commenting on Kim Zetter's Junk Food Algorithms http//www.wired.com/epicenter/2011/03/eli-pariser-at-ted
Arvind,Gupta,Turning trash into toys for learning,Toymaker, ArvindGuptaToys.com,,Arvind Gupta is an Indian toy inventor and popularizer of science for kids. Creating simple toys out of trash and everyday goods, he illustrates principles of science and design in a memorably hands-on fashion. He works at the Children's Science Centre in Pune, India.,He's the author of numerous books available in English, Hindi and other Indian languages, including Little Toys , Science from Scrap , and Science Skills & Thrills The Best of Arvind Gupta . His Low-Cost Equipment for Science and Technology Eduction is available as a PDF download through UNESCO. Many of his toy designs are explained in one-minute films >>
Mike,Matas,A next-generation digital book,Software engineer, mikematas.com,,Mike Matas has worked on some of the most intriguing tech projects of the past 10 years. As a (surprisingly) young coder, he co-founded Delicious Monster, makers of the elegant cataloguing tool Delicious Library. In 2005 he went to work for Apple, where he designed user interfaces and artwork for the iPhone, the iPad and Mac OS X.,Now, he's the co-founder of Push Pop Press , a digital publishing company just purchased by Facebook . Push Pop's first title is Al Gore's Our Choice, playable on iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.
Angela,Belcher,Using nature to grow batteries,Biological engineer,dmse.mit.edu,,With a bachelors in Creative Studies and a Ph.D. in Inorganic Chemistry, Angela Belcher has made a career out of finding surprising and innovative solutions to energy problems. As head of the Biomolecular Materials Group at MIT, Belcher brings together the fields of materials chemistry, electrical engineering and molecular biology to engineer viruses that can create batteries and clean energy sources. A MacArthur Fellow, she also founded Cambrios Technologies, a Cambridge-based startup focused on applying her work with natural biological systems to the manufacture and assembly of electronic, magnetic and other commercially important materials. TIME magazine named her a climate-change hero in 2007.,Watch an animation of Angela Belcher's life story >>
Bruce,Schneier,The security mirage,Security expert, schneier.com,,Bruce Schneier is an internationally renowned security technologist and author. Described by the Economist as a security guru, he is best known as a refreshingly candid and lucid security critic and commentator. When people want to know how security really works, they turn to Schneier.,His first bestseller, Applied Cryptography, explained how the arcane science of secret codes actually works, and was described by Wired as the book the National Security Agency wanted never to be published. His book on computer and network security, Secrets and Lies , was called by Fortune [a] jewel box of little surprises you can actually use. Beyond Fear tackles the problems of security from the small to the large personal safety, crime, corporate security, national security. His current book, Schneier on Security , offers insight into everything from the risk of identity theft (vastly overrated) to the long-range security threat of unchecked presidential power and the surprisingly simple way to tamper-proof elections.
Harvey,Fineberg,Are we ready for neo-evolution?,Health policy expert, iom.edu,,As president of the Institute of Medicine, Harvey Fineberg thinks deeply about new medicine, both its broad possibilities and the moral and philosophical questions that each new treatment brings. How do we decide which treatment to use in a tricky case -- both individually and as a community? Is it fair that the richest hospitals get the best healthcare? Who should bear the risk (and gain the reward) of trying the newest treatments? Fineberg helped found and served as president of the Society for Medical Decision Making and also served as consultant to the World Health Organization. He was provost of Harvard from 1997 to 2001, following thirteen years as Dean of the Harvard School of Public Health. He has devoted most of his academic career to the fields of health policy and medical decision making. His past research has focused on the process of policy development and implementation, assessment of medical technology, evaluation and use of vaccines, and dissemination of medical innovations.,
Ric,Elias,3 things I learned while my plane crashed,Entrepreneur, redventures.com,,Born in Puerto Rico, Ric Elias came to the United States for college knowing little English, as he writes in his online bio . So what did he do? I adjusted my schedule and took only classes that dealt with numbers my entire first year, he says. I'd always been decent at math, and things like calculus and accounting were non-lingual. I was able to buy some time to improve my English skills. His facility with numbers has led to a wide-ranging career in business and finance.,Elias is the CEO and co-founder of Red Ventures, a firm that helps large service companies acquire new customers online. He began his career in General Electric Co.'s Aerospace Division, then worked at the marketing services company CUC International (later known as Cendant). Prior to founding Red Ventures, Ric served as president of Spark Network Services, a promotion and data company held by Cendant.
Anil,Ananthaswamy,What it takes to do extreme astrophysics,Science writer,www.anilananthaswamy.com/,,Anil Ananthaswamy is a consultant for New Scientist in London. He has worked at the magazine in various capacities since 2000, most recently as deputy news editor. He is also a contributor to National Geographic News.,Ananthaswamy worked as a software engineer in Silicon Valley before training as a journalist at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He's the author of The Edge of Physics (published as The Edge of Reason by Penguin in India).
John,Hunter,Teaching with the World Peace Game,Educator,theworldpeacegame.com,,Musician, teacher, filmmaker and game designer, John Hunter has dedicated his life to helping children realize their full potential. His own life story is one of a never-ending quest for harmony. As a student, he studied comparative religions and philosophy while traveling through Japan, China and India. In India, inspired by Ghandi's philosophy, he began to think about the role of the schoolteacher in creating a more peaceful world. As his online biography says Accepting the reality of violence, he would seek to incorporate ways to explore harmony in various situations. This exploration would take form in the framework of a game – something that students would enjoy. Within the game data space, they would be challenged, while enhancing collaborative and communication skills. In 1978, at the Richmond Community High School, Hunter led the first sessions of his World Peace Game , a hands-on political simulation. The game has now been played around the world, on a four-tiered board. It's the subject of the new film World Peace and Other 4th-Grade Achievements .,Read John Hunter's note to the community following the publication of his TEDTalk >>
Kathryn,Schulz,On being wrong,Wrongologist,beingwrongbook.com/author,,Kathryn Schulz is a journalist, author, and public speaker with a credible (if not necessarily enviable) claim to being the world's leading wrongologist. She was previously the book critic for New York Magazine, her writing has also appeared in the New York Times Magazine, Rolling Stone, TIME Magazine , the Boston Globe, the Freakonomics blog of The New York Times, The Nation, Foreign Policy, and the New York Times Book Review, among other publications. She is the former editor of the online environmental magazine Grist , and a former reporter and editor for The Santiago Times , of Santiago, Chile, where she covered environmental, labor, and human rights issues. She was a 2004 recipient of the Pew Fellowship in International Journalism (now the International Reporting Project), and has reported from throughout Central and South America, Japan, and, most recently, the Middle East. A graduate of Brown University and a former Ohioan, Oregonian and Brooklynite, she currently lives in New York's Hudson Valley.,
Sam,Richards,A radical experiment in empathy,Sociologist, worldinconversation.org,,Identifying himself as an iconoclast from Toledo, Ohio, and identified by David Horowitz as one of the 101 Most Dangerous Academics in America, Sam Richards is one of the most provocative, and popular, sociology teachers in the country. Every year 725 students at Penn State University take his course on race and ethnic relations, where he attacks, with humor and courage, questions most would choose to avoid. He is also the founder of the World in Conversation project. Every year, more than 7,000 students participate in its mission is to create a conscious dialogue around the politically incorrect thoughts of the participants, bringing them out in the open for inspection.,
Susan,Lim,Transplant cells, not organs,Surgeon,www.drsusanlim.com/,,Susan Lim established her reputation as a surgeon in 1990 after performing Singapore's (and southeast Asia's) first successful liver transplant. She has gone on to further pioneer in the field of general surgery, two new surgical technologies for Singapore, the mammotome minimally invasive breast biopsy and robotic surgery for the private sector. She founded and is chair and CEO of Centre for Robotic Surgery and spearheaded the Robotic General Surgery Program for Singapore.,In 2003, Dr. Lim launched Stem Cell Technologies (i), a biotech company to research the use of adult stem cells for application in cell therapy and regenerative medicine. In 2004, SCT(i) entered into research collaboration with National University of Singapore to specifically research the use of adult stem cells as a treatment for diabetes.
Marcin,Jakubowski,Open-sourced blueprints for civilization,Farmer and technologist,opensourceecology.org,,Declaring that, We can lead self-sustaining lives without sacrificing our standard of living, Marcin Jakubowski believes that only by opening the means of production can we achieve abundance for all. Though he has a Ph.D. in fusion physics, he became dissatisfied with its remoteness, and turned back to the earth as a farmer and social innovator. He is the founder of Open Source Ecology , which is creating the Global Village Construction Set — the blueprints for simple fabrication of everything needed to start a self-sustaining village. At Factor e Farm in rural Missouri, he's been successfully putting those ideas to the test.,“It's not reinventing the wheel, it's open-sourcing the wheel.” — Julia Valentine, farmer, in The Atlantic
Roger,Ebert,Remaking my voice,Film critic and blogger, rogerebert.suntimes.com,,By any measure, Roger Ebert was a legend. The first person to win a Pulitzer for film criticism, as film critic for the Chicago Sun-Times , he was best known for his decades-long reign as the co-host of Sneak Previews, a TV show with fellow Chicago critic Gene Siskel. For 23 years and three title changes (finally settling on Siskel and Ebert and the Movies ) the two critics offered smart, short-form film criticism that guided America's moviegoing. After Gene Siskel died in 1999, Ebert kept on with critic Richard Roeper. (And he was also the co-screenwriter of the Russ Meyer cult classic Beyond the Valley of the Dolls , a fact that astounded more than a few young film students.),In 2006, Ebert began treatment for thyroid cancer. He told the story of his many surgeries and setbacks in an immensely-worth-reading Esquire story in 2010. Enduring procedure after procedure, he eventually lost the lower part of his jaw -- and with it his ability to eat and speak. Turning to his blog and to Twitter, he found a new voice for his film work and his sparkling thoughts on ... just about everything. He tried his hand as an Amazon affiliate, became a finalist in the New Yorker caption contest, and started a controversy or two. In 2013 Ebert passed away from cancer at the age of 70.
Dave,Meslin,The antidote to apathy,Artist and organizer,https//meslin.wordpress.com/,,Multi-partisan and fiercely optimistic, Dave Meslin embraces ideas and projects that cut across traditional boundaries between grassroots politics, electoral politics and the arts community. In his work, in Toronto and globally, he attempts to weave elements of these communities together. (His business card reads  Dave Meslin  community choreographer, which feels about right.),Some of his projects include 2006's City Idol contest, which put a sexy new face on council elections, co-editing Local Motion , a book about civic projects in Toronto, and Dandyhorse and Spacing magazines. And he's part of the Toronto folk/indie collective Hidden Cameras, using their worldwide touring to research voting practices in the cities where they play. He recently founded the Ranked Ballot Initiative of Toronto (RaBIT) .
David,Christian,The history of our world in 18 minutes,Historian,www.mq.edu.au › ... › Staff,,David Christian is by training a historian of Russia and the Soviet Union, but since the 1980s he has become interested in world history on very large scales. He has written on the social and material history of the 19th-century Russian peasantry, in particular on aspects of diet and the role of alcohol. In 1989, he began teaching courses on Big History, surveying the past on the largest possible scales, including those of biology and astronomy. Christian is a member of the Australian Academy of the Humanities. Over the next few years he will also be working with the support of Bill Gates to create an online course in Big History for high school students.,Watch the Big History series on H2 >>
Jackson,Browne,A song inspired by the ocean,Musician and activist, jacksonbrowne.com,,Since his debut album in 1972, Jackson Browne has written some of the most literate and moving songs in popular music. Inducted into both the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Songwriter’s Hall of Fame, he's defined a genre of songwriting charged with honesty, emotion and personal politics. He has released 19 albums, his latest, Love Is Strange featuring David Lindley, was released last year.,Browne has combined his four-decade-long music career with a passionate commitment to social and environmental justice. He's a co-founder of the groups Musicians United for Safe Energy (MUSE), Nukefree.org, and the Success Through the Arts Foundation, which provides education opportunities for students in South Central Los Angeles.
Caroline,Casey,Looking past limits,Advocate for disabled people, Kanchi.org,,Caroline Casey has dedicated the past decade of her life to changing how global society views people with disabilities. In 2000, she rode 1,000 kilometers across India on an elephant to raise funds for Sight Savers. Then, as founding CEO of Kanchi in Dublin, she developed a set of best practices (based on ISO 9000 quality standards) for businesses, to help them see disabled workers as an asset as opposed to a liability. Hundreds of companies have adopted the standards, changing their policies and attitudes.,In 2004, Casey started the O2 Ability Awards to recognize Irish businesses for their inclusion of people with disabilities, both as employees and customers. The initiative has received international praise and, in 2010, a parallel program was launched in Spain.
Mick,Ebeling,The invention that unlocked a locked-in artist,Entrepreneur,mickebeling.com/,,Raised in a family of entrepreneurs and philanthropists, Mick Ebeling is founder of the Not Impossible Foundation, an organization comprised of thinkers, dreamers, and doers, with a mission to take ideas that once seemed impossible to possible, when the right people are connected and empowered.,After befriending ALS patient and renown street artist named Tempt, he and a team of programmers, hackers, artists and inventors developed the EyeWriter -- a low-cost eye-tracking device that allows artists with the nerve disease ALS to draw using only their eyes. Since it’s creation, the EyeWriter has achieved noteworthy press and appearances including Time Magazine’s “Top 50 Inventions of 2010” as well as being honored at Advertising Age and Creativity’s 2010 “The Idea Conference.”
Morgan,Spurlock,The greatest TED Talk ever sold,Filmmaker, morganspurlock.com,,Though it was as high-concept as any reality-TV show, Morgan Spurlock's 2004 film Super Size Me was something else entirely a critique of modern fast-feeding, wrapped in the personal story of a charming, curious host. And host can be taken literally eating only McDonald's for 30 days straight, Spurlock went into a shocking physical and emotional decline, showing via his own body the truth about junk food. After this Oscar-nominated doc came Spurlock's three-seasons-long unscripted TV show, 30 Days , based on another lifehack Send a person to live, for 30 days, inside another worldview. Stories from 30 Days are human, engaging, surprising An anti-immigrant activist warms to a tight-knit family of border-crossers, an outsourced US engineer meets the Indian engineer who holds his old job, a former pro football player spends 30 days navigating the world in a wheelchair.,In 2008, Spurlock released Where in the World Is Osama Bin Laden? , about his months-long trek through Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Israel, Palestine ... following leads and interviewing people along the way. (In an interview, he guessed he got within 50 miles of Osama before winding up the hunt.) He was also part of a group-filmed version of Freakonomics . He wrote a book about his fast-food odyssey, called Don't Eat This Book -- while his wife, vegan chef Alex Jamieson, wrote a bestseller about the eight-week cleansing diet she put Spurlock on after he got supersized.
Chade-Meng,Tan,Everyday compassion at Google,Google Fellow, chademeng.com,,Chade-Meng Tan was one of Google's earliest engineers. Among many other things, Meng helped build Google's first mobile search service, and headed the team that kept a vigilant eye on Google's search quality. After an eight-year stint in Engineering, he now serves with GoogleEDU as the Head of Personal Growth. One of his main projects is Search Inside Yourself -- a mindfulness-based emotional intelligence course, which he hopes will eventually contribute to world peace in a meaningful way. His 2012 book is also called Search Inside Yourself -- and Dan Pink is a fan .,Outside of Google, Meng is the Founder and (Jolly Good) President of the Tan Teo Charitable Foundation, a small foundation dedicated to promoting peace, liberty and enlightenment in the world. He is a founding patron of Stanford University's Center for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education (CCARE). He is also a founding patron of the World Peace Festival, and adviser to a number of technology startups.
Stanley,McChrystal,Listen, learn ... then lead,Military leader, jackson.yale.edu,,With a remarkable record of achievement, General Stanley McChrystal has been praised for creating a revolution in warfare that fused intelligence and operations. A four-star general, he is the former commander of U.S. and international forces in Afghanistan and the former leader of Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), which oversees the military’s most sensitive forces. McChrystal’s leadership of JSOC is credited with the December 2003 capture of Saddam Hussein and the June 2006 location and killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al-Qaeda in Iraq. McChrystal, a former Green Beret, is known for his candor. After McChrystal graduated from West Point, he was commissioned as an infantry officer, and spent much of his career commanding special operations and airborne infantry units. During the Persian Gulf War, McChrystal served in a Joint Special Operations Task Force and later commanded the 75th Ranger Regiment. He completed year-long fellowships at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1997 and in 2000 at the Council on Foreign Relations. In 2002, he was appointed chief of staff of military operations in Afghanistan. Two years later, McChrystal was selected to deliver nationally televised Pentagon briefings about military operations in Iraq. From 2003 to 2008, McChrystal commanded JSOC and was responsible for leading the nation’s deployed military counter-terrorism efforts around the globe. He assumed command of all International Forces in Afghanistan in June 2009. President Obama’s order for an additional 30,000 troops to Afghanistan was based on McChrystal’s assessment of the war there. McChrystal retired from the military in August 2010.,“One of America’s greatest warriors.” — Secretary of Defense Robert Gates
AnnMarie,Thomas,Hands-on science with squishy circuits,Educator, stthomas.edu,,AnnMarie Thomas joined the faculty of the University of St. Thomas in the fall of 2006. Previously, she was a faculty member at Art Center College of Design. She is the director of the UST Design laboratory and leads a team of students looking at both the playful side of engineering (squishy circuits for students, the science of circus, toy design) and ways to use engineering design to help others (projects in technology design for older adults). Thomas, in partnership with collaborator Jan Hansen, is co-director of the University of St. Thomas Center for Pre-Collegiate Engineering Education (CPCEE).,Thomas teaches Engineering Graphics, Machine Design, Dynamics (with Circus Lab), Toy Design, Product Design for an Aging Population, and Brain Machine Interfaces (seminar). She organizes the School of Engineering Design Night (featuring the ENGR320 Machine Design competition), and the Design Discussions seminar series. Thomas has also worked on underwater robotics (at MIT, Caltech and the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute), specializing in biologically inspired propulsion. She has consulted on projects ranging from the design/creation of a musical earthquake-playing robot to the initial research for a book on earthquakes in Los Angeles. At Caltech, she founded the Caltech Robotics Outreach Group (CROG) and the Caltech/JPL/LEGO Middle School Robotics Conference.
Eric,Whitacre,A virtual choir 2,000 voices strong,Composer, conductor, EricWhitacre.com,,Eric Whitacre began his music career singing in his college choir, by 21, he had written his first concert work, Go, Lovely Rose , and advanced to Juilliard, where he studied under John Corigliano. Today, he has published more than four dozen choral works, conducted in some of the most esteemed halls in the world, and featured on dozens of recordings. His album Cloudburst and Other Choral Works earned him a Grammy nomination in 2007, as did his Decca debut Light & Gold , while his new album, Water Night , debuted at #1 in US iTunes classical charts.,You may know him, too, as the creator and conductor of the virtual choir , a network of YouTube-connected singers whose voices blend together online to become true magic. And he's now touring with the Eric Whitacre Signers, a 28-voice choir (yes, they're all in the same room).
Sebastian,Thrun,Google's driverless car,Engineer, robots.stanford.edu,,Sebastian Thrun is a professor of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at Stanford University, where he also serves as the Director of the Stanford AI Lab. His research focuses on robotics and artificial intelligence. He led the development of the robotic vehicle Stanley which won the 2005 DARPA Grand Challenge , and which is exhibited in the Smithsonian.,Read the TED Blog's first-person story of a spin in the Google driverless car >>
Handspring,Puppet,The genius puppetry behind War Horse,Puppeteers, handspringpuppet.co.za,,Handspring Puppet Company was founded in 1981 by four graduates of the Michaelis School of Fine Art in Cape Town, South Africa. Two of the co-founders, Adrian Kohler and Basil Jones, continue to run the company. Originally they created shows for children and thereafter works for adult audiences. Arguably one of the greatest puppetry companies in the world, Handspring has since collaborated with a succession of innovative South Africa directors including Malcolm Purkey, Barney Simon and artist William Kentridge.,Apart from seasons throughout theatres across South Africa, Handspring has been presented at many international festivals including Edinburgh, the Avignon Festival, the Next Wave Festival at BAM in New York, The African Odyssey Festival at the Kennedy Centre in Washington, Theatre d' Automne in Paris, Theatre der Welt in Germany, as well as in Hong Kong, Singapore, Adelaide, Zurich and Bogota.
Ralph,Langner,Cracking Stuxnet, a 21st-century cyber weapon,Security consultant,www.langner.com/,,Ralph Langner heads Langner, an independent cyber-security firm that specializes in control systems -- electronic devices that monitor and regulate other devices, such as manufacturing equipment. These devices' deep connection to the infrastructure that runs our cities and countries has made them, increasingly, the targets of an emerging, highly sophisticated type of cyber-warfare. And since 2010, when the Stuxnet computer worm first reared its head, Langner has stood squarely in the middle of the battlefield.,As part of a global effort to decode the mysterious program, Langner and his team analyzed Stuxnet's data structures, and revealed what he believes to be its ultimate intent the control system software known to run centrifuges in nuclear facilities -- specifically, facilities in Iran. Further analysis by Langner uncovered what seem to be Stuxnet's shocking origins, which he revealed in his TED2011 talk . (PS He was right .)
Patricia,Ryan,Don't insist on English!,Language teacher, TEDxDubai.com,,UK-born language teacher Patricia Ryan has spent most of the past 40 years teaching English in the countries of the Arabian Gulf. She is currently teaching at Zayed University in Dubai, and studying for a second Masters degree in Law.,“English is big business and languages are dying as never before. Is there a connection? Is this another manifestation of McDonaldisation – the undesirable face of globalization? Do we want to lose the variety of languages and all the rich culture that comes with them?” — From TEDxDubai
Claron,McFadden,Singing the primal mystery,Soprano, claronmcfadden.com,,Claron McFadden is a soprano who studied voice at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York. Her celebrated operatic roles are numerous and varied. She sings many of the major oratorio works, but is also in demand for her interpretation of modern and contemporary music. Her many recordings include Birtwistle's Paul Cèlan Songs , Haydn's Orfeo and Handel's Alexander Balus with the King’s Consort. In August 2007 McFadden was awarded the Amsterdam Prize of the Arts, winning praise for her brilliant coloratura, her wide repertoire ranging from Monteverdi to Bernstein and contemporary composers, and her vivid stage personality.,
Eythor,Bender,Human exoskeletons — for war and healing,Berkeley Bionics' CEO, berkeleybionics.com,,Eythor Bender is the CEO of Berkeley Bionics, which augments humans with wearable, powered and artificially intelligent devices called exoskeletons or wearable robots. User of the HULC (Human Universal Load Carrier) can carry up to 200 pounds for hours and over all terrains. eLEGS, an exoskeleton for wheelchair users, powers paraplegics up to get them standing and walking. Bender has fostered innovation with bionic and orthopedic technologies throughout his career, taking them from unconventional approaches to sustainable, FDA-approved products that help individuals participate in their community. Such was the case with the boomerang-shaped prosthesis Cheetah Flex-Foot by Ossur, worn by the history-making bilateral amputee Oscar Pistorius. Bender's team fought for, and won, Pistorius' right to compete in the Olympics.,“Seriously, everyone a soldier just walked onto the #TED stage wearing a functional exoskeleton.” — @hodgman
Paul,Root,It's time to question bio-engineering,Ethicist,ethics.emory.edu/people/Director.html,,Paul Root Wolpe directs the Center for Ethics at Emory University, where he works on the biggest issues most of us face in our life-long ethical journey death and dying, new reproductive technologies, and new medical and scientific breakthroughs that are not covered in our traditional ethics (what would the Bible say about growing a human ear on a mouse?).,He's also the chief bioethicist at NASA , where he advises on the medical experiments that happen during space travel.
Isabel,Behncke,Evolution's gift of play, from bonobo apes to humans,Primatologist,Fellows Meet the TED2011 TED Fellows,,TED Fellow Isabel Behncke Izquierdo writes I was born and raised in Chile, and was educated in animal behaviour and evolutionary anthropology in Cambridge and Oxford. For my PhD work, I study the social behaviour (and play behaviour in particular) of wild bonobos in DR Congo.,Bonobos are, together with chimpanzees, our living closest relatives, however we know very little about them -- mostly through captive work. In Wamba, a most remote jungle location, I have observed unique aspects of bonobo lives (from imaginary play and laughter to inter-group encounters to accidents and death) that challenge and illuminate our understanding of human evolution. I aim to link the play of adult bonobos to insights on human laughter, joy, creativity and our capacity for wonder and exploration.
Hans,Rosling,The magic washing machine,Global health expert, data visionary, Gapminder.com,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Sarah,Kay,If I should have a daughter ...,Poet, kaysarahsera.com,,Plenty of 14-year-old girls write poetry. But few hide under the bar of the famous Bowery Poetry Club in Manhattan’s East Village absorbing the talents of New York’s most exciting poets. Not only did Sarah Kay do that -- she also had the guts to take its stage and hold her own against performers at least a decade her senior. Her talent for weaving words into poignant, funny, and powerful performances paid off.,Sarah holds a Masters degree in the art of teaching from Brown University and an honorary doctorate in humane letters from Grinnell College. Her first book, B , was ranked the number one poetry book on Amazon.com. Her second book, No Matter the Wreckage , is available from Write Bloody Publishing.
Rogier,van,Why light needs darkness,Lighting designer, rogiervanderheide.com,,Lighting designer Rogier van der Heide creates (and oversees) engaging, inspiring, three-dimensional design that fuses light, image projection, architecture and product design to create a memorable, authentic experience. He's been internationally recognized as one of the leading architectural lighting design specialists. He's the Chief Design Officer for Philips Lighting, before that, he was Director at Arup and Global Business Leader Lighting Design of Arup Lighting. Van der Heide is one of five international designers commissioned by Swarovski Crystal Palace to create an installation to be launched during the Milan Furniture Fair this year.,
Mark,Bezos,A life lesson from a volunteer firefighter,Activist, volunteer firefighter, robinhood.org,,Mark Bezos is the SVP, Development, Communications & Events at Robin Hood , the leading poverty-fighting charity in New York City. Bezos joined Robin Hood following the sale of his advertising agency, excited to have found a way to use his powers of persuasion for good. Bezos is the Assistant Captain of a volunteer fire company in Westchester County, New York, where he lives with his wife and four children. He is continuously amazed and motivated by the everyday acts of heroism--big and small--that surround him.,“Fire fighting volunteer saves pair of shoes. Small acts or small, all matter. Get in game. Save the shoes -) #TED” — @rickrommel
Janna,Levin,The sound the universe makes,Physicist, jannalevin.com,,Janna Levin is a Professor of Physics and Astronomy at Barnard College of Columbia University . Her scientific research concerns the early universe, chaos and black holes. Her second book – a novel, A Madman Dreams of Turing Machines – won the PEN/Bingham Fellowship for Writers and was a runner-up for the PEN/Hemingway award for a distinguished book of first fiction. She is the author of the popular science book, How the Universe Got Its Spots Diary of a Finite Time in a Finite Space . She holds a BA in Physics and Astronomy from Barnard College with a concentration in Philosophy, and a PhD from MIT in Physics. She has worked at the Center for Particle Astrophysics (CfPA) at the University of California, Berkeley before moving to the UK where she worked at Cambridge University in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics (DAMTP). Just before returning to New York, she was the first scientist-in-residence at the Ruskin School of Fine Art and Drawing at Oxford with an award from the National Endowment for Science, Technology, and Arts ( NESTA ).,Listen to a Q&A with another TED speaker, Krista Tippett -- where they talk math and faith and truth and more ...
David,Brooks,The social animal,Columnist,NYTimes.com,,Writer and thinker David Brooks has covered business, crime and politics (as well as subbing in as the Wall Street Journal 's movie critic) over a long career in journalism. He's an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times in a legendary run that started in September 2003.,His column looks deeply into the social currents that underpin American life. He's the author of Bobos in Paradise The New Upper Class and How They Got There and On Paradise Drive How We Live Now (And Always Have) in the Future Tense . His most recent book, The Social Animal , examines new findings in brain science in the context of a story about two successful people whose lives unfold in ways that neurological research is helping us understand more deeply.
Rob,Harmon,How the market can keep streams flowing,Natural resources expert,www.robharmonsworld.com/,,Taking the true measure of our environmental footprint is something that Rob Harmon has been doing for years. Starting as an energy auditor in Massachusetts, Harmon went on to manage an international marketing effort in the wind energy industry and, in 2000, develop and launch the first carbon calculator on the Internet. Harmon joined Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) in 1999, and is credited with developing their Green Tag program. In 2004, he was awarded the national Green Power Pioneer Award for his introduction of the retail Green Tag (Renewable Energy Certificates) and his ongoing efforts to build a thriving and credible Green Tag market in the United States. He also conceptualized and directed the development of BEF's national Solar 4R Schools program. His latest venture is the creation of BEF's Water Restoration Certificate business line, which utilizes voluntary markets to restore critically de-watered ecosystems. He recently contributed chapters to the book Voluntary Carbon Markets A Business Guide to What They Are and How They Work . Rob left BEF in November 2010 to explore his next venture, ConvenientOpportunities.com .,
Deb,Roy,The birth of a word,Cognitive scientist,dkroy.media.mit.edu/,,Deb Roy directs the Cognitive Machines group at the MIT Media Lab , where he studies how children learn language, and designs machines that learn to communicate in human-like ways. To enable this work, he has pioneered new data-driven methods for analyzing and modeling human linguistic and social behavior. He has authored numerous scientific papers on artificial intelligence, cognitive modeling, human-machine interaction, data mining, and information visualization.,Deb Roy was the co-founder and serves as CEO of Bluefin Labs , a venture-backed technology company. Built upon deep machine learning principles developed in his research over the past 15 years, Bluefin has created a technology platform that analyzes social media commentary to measure real-time audience response to TV ads and shows.
Salman,Khan,Let's use video to reinvent education,Educator, khanacademy.org,,Salman Khan is the founder and faculty of the Khan Academy (www.khanacademy.org)-- a not-for-profit organization with the mission of providing a free world-class education to anyone, anywhere. It now consists of self-paced software and, with over 1 million unique students per month, the most-used educational video repository on the Internet (over 30 million lessons delivered to-date). All 2000+ video tutorials, covering everything from basic addition to advanced calculus, physics, chemistry and biology, have been made by Salman.,Prior to the Khan Academy, Salman was a senior analyst at a hedge fund and had also worked in technology and venture capital. He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School, an M.Eng and B.S. in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT, and a B.S. in mathematics from MIT.
Courtney,Martin,This isn't her mother's feminism,Blogger, Internet entrepreneur,courtneyemartin.com,,In her new book Do It Anyway The New Generation of Activists , Courtney E. Martin pro?les eight young people doing social justice work. It’s a fascinating look at the generation of world-changers who are now stepping up to the plate. And as an editor at Feministing.com, the most highly read feminist publication in the world, Martin watches an evolving world of a feminism empowered by social media.,Martin’s ?rst book was Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters How the Quest for Perfection Is Harming Young Women , an anthology Click When We Knew We Were Feminists , co-edited with J. Courtney Sullivan, was released last year. Martin is also a Senior Correspondent for The American Prospect , she’s appeared on Good Morning America , the TODAY Show , CNN and MSNBC, and held her own against Bill O’Reilly and Laura Ingraham.
Anthony,Atala,Printing a human kidney,Surgeon,www.wakehealth.edu/.../Anthony-At..,,Anthony Atala is the director of the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine, where his work focuses on growing and regenerating tissues and organs . His team engineered the first lab-grown organ to be implanted into a human -- a bladder -- and is developing experimental fabrication technology that can print human tissue on demand. In 2007, Atala and a team of Harvard University researchers showed that stem cells can be harvested from the amniotic fluid of pregnant women. This and other breakthroughs in the development of smart bio-materials and tissue fabrication technology promises to revolutionize the practice of medicine.,“Anthony Atala bakes things that will make you feel good inside, but we're not talking cakes and muffins.” — PBS
Bill,Gates,How state budgets are breaking US schools,Philanthropist,gatesfoundation.org,,Bill Gates is the founder and former CEO of Microsoft. A geek icon, tech visionary and business trailblazer, Gates' leadership -- fueled by his long-held dream that millions might realize their potential through great software -- made Microsoft a personal computing powerhouse and a trendsetter in the Internet dawn. Whether you're a suit, chef, quant, artist, media maven, nurse or gamer, you've probably used a Microsoft product today. In summer of 2008, Gates left his day-to-day role with Microsoft to focus on philanthropy. Holding that all lives have equal value (no matter where they're being lived) , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has now donated staggering sums to HIV/AIDS programs, libraries, agriculture research and disaster relief -- and offered vital guidance and creative funding to programs in global health and education. Gates believes his tech-centric strategy for giving will prove the killer app of planet Earth's next big upgrade.,Read a collection of Bill and Melinda Gates' annual letters , where they take stock of the Gates Foundation and the world. And follow his ongoing thinking on his personal website, The Gates Notes . His new paper, The Next Epidemic, is published by the New England Journal of Medicine.
Wael,Ghonim,Inside the Egyptian revolution,Activist,www.npr.org/.../wael-ghonim-creating-a-revolution-2-0-in-egypt,,Wael Ghonim is an Internet activist and computer engineer, and a member of Google Ventures. As  ElShaheeed , he started up an influential Facebook page that galvanized voices of protest in Egypt. In early 2011, he was detained by the Egyptian government for 11 days -- when freed after international pressure, he revealed his identity, and became a leading fugure in the youth revolution that forced Hosni Mubarak from power.,“Our revolution is like Wikipedia, okay? Everyone is contributing content, [but] you don't know the names of the people contributing the content. This is exactly what happened. Revolution 2.0 in Egypt was exactly the same. Everyone contributing small pieces, bits and pieces. We drew this whole picture of a revolution. And no one is the hero in that picture.” — Warl Ghonim on 60 Minutes
JR,,My wish Use art to turn the world inside out,Street artist, insideoutproject.net,,Working anonymously, pasting his giant images on buildings, trains, bridges, the often-guerrilla artist JR forces us to see each other. Traveling to distant, often dangerous places -- the slums of Kenya, the favelas of Brazil -- he infiltrates communities, befriending inhabitants and recruiting them as models and collaborators. He gets in his subjects’ faces with a 28mm wide-angle lens, resulting in portraits that are unguarded, funny, soulful, real, that capture the sprits of individuals who normally go unseen. The blown-up images pasted on urban surfaces – the sides of buildings, bridges, trains, buses, on rooftops -- confront and engage audiences where they least expect it. Images of Parisian thugs are pasted up in bourgeois neighborhoods, photos of Israelis and Palestinians are posted together on both sides of the walls that separate them. JR's most recent project, Women Are Heroes, depicts women dealing with the effects of war, poverty, violence, and oppression” from Rio de Janeiro, Phnom Penh, Delhi and several African cities. And his TED Prize wish opens an even wider lens on the world -- asking us all to turn the world inside out. Visit insideoutproject.net ...,“I would like to bring art to improbable places, create projects so huge with the community that they are forced to ask themselves questions.” — JR, Beaux Arts Magazine
Wadah,Khanfar,A historic moment in the Arab world,Journalist, aljazeera.net,,From war correspondent to Baghdad bureau chief to Director General from 2003 until he stepped down in 2011 , Wadah Khanfar worked through the closure and bombing of Al Jazeera's bureaus, the torture and murder of its journalists and state propaganda smears. Al Jazeera's approach to journalism emphasizes re-thinking authority, giving a voice to the voiceless, Khanfar said in an interview with TIME . No news network has attracted as much controversy as Al Jazeera. Khanfar, in turn, became the lightning rod for dispute on the organization's place in politics, both in its home region and abroad. (In the West, editorials have accused him of sympathizing with terrorists, in his own region, of fanning instability.),“Ten years ago, Arabia was controlled by governments, and therefore the media -- mainly TV stations -- were pushing only one line, which was the government's vision about reality and politics. When Al Jazeera came, it changed all of that, and suddenly you find people from different political parties and opposition leaders appearing on the screen, speaking to the audiences with their opinions ...” — Wadah Khanfar, in an interview with PBS/Frontline
Ahn,Trio,A modern take on piano, violin, cello,Piano trio, AhnTrio.com,,Born in Seoul, Korea, and educated at Juilliard, cellist Maria, pianist Lucia, and violinist Angella Ahn are breathing new life into the standard piano-trio literature. They’ve commissioned works from visionary composers such as Michael Nyman, Maurice Jarre, Pat Metheny, Paul Schoenfield, Mark O’Connor, Kenji Bunch, Nikolai Kapustin and Paul Chihara. The trio’s latest CD is Lullaby for My Favorite Insomniac , a showcase of this vibrant and original music. The trio has been touring for a decade, and have made six albums so far, five for major labels, for Lullaby , the trio formed their own production company, L.A.M.P. (Lucia Angella Maria Productions) to self-produce.,The Ahn Trio has fused their work with that of dancers, pop singers, DJs, painters, installation artists, photographers, lighting designers, ecologists and even kite makers, recently, they performed in the Czech Republic with rock group the Tata Bojs to sold-out shows.
Danny,Hillis,Understanding cancer through proteomics,Computer theorist, AppliedMinds.com,,Danny Hillis is an inventor, scientist, author and engineer. While completing his doctorate at MIT, he pioneered the concept of parallel computers that is now the basis for most supercomputers, as well as the RAID array. He holds over 100 US patents, covering parallel computers, disk arrays, forgery prevention methods, and various electronic and mechanical devices, and has recently been working on problems in medicine as well. He is also the designer of a 10,000-year mechanical clock, and he gave a TED Talk in 1994 that is practically prophetic. Throughout his career, Hillis has worked at places like Disney and now Applied Minds , always looking for the next fascinating problem.,“We're at a point in time which is analogous to when single-celled organisms were turning into multi-celled organisms. So we're the amoebas.” — Danny Hillis
Elizabeth,Lindsey,Curating humanity's heritage,Explorer, ethnographer,elizabethlindsey.com,,Elizabeth Kapu'uwailani Lindsey wants the world to remember the people who came before us. The actor-turned-anthropologist has made it her mission to find, preserve and share the knowledge and traditions of indigenous populations before they disappear. She’s working with Google to create a geospatial Map of the Human Story, using the indigenous science of wayfinding to chart tales at risk of being lost.,In 2011, Lindsey, who's the first female fellow and first Polynesian explorer at the National Geographic Society, will set out on a 186-day global expedition to document what she calls teachings critical to navigating the complexity of our times. Lindsey’s 1996 documentary Then There Were None , which chronicled the near-extinction of native Hawaiians, has become a must-see in many history classrooms. She was named Hawaii’s Woman of the Year in 2004.
Iain,Hutchison,Saving faces A facial surgeon's craft,Facial surgeon, savingfaces.co.uk,,Iain Hutchison thinks deeply about our faces. In his practice at St. Bartholomew’s, Royal London and University College London Hospitals, he has seen faces that lack the basic ability to function, to communicate emotion, to serve as a window to the world. His work involves repairing individual faces that have been impaired through cancer, birth defect or accidents—and asking all of us to look beyond first impressions.,One way he’s seeding the conversation is through the Facial Surgery Research Foundation/Saving Faces, which supports facial surgery research and education as well as a groundbreaking artistic residency by painter Mark Gilbert. Right in Hutchison’s office, patients sat for Gilbert before and after facial surgery, resulting in searching, honest portraits that show the humanity even of someone whose face we might be unwilling to look at. The “Saving Faces” exhibit has been seen by more than two million gallery visitors. Hutchison is also an active advocate of running clinical trials for facial surgery, and he funds and co-supervises two psychology PhD students to study ways to improve emotional and functional outcomes.
Noreena,Hertz,How to use experts — and when not to,Economist, noreena.com,,For more than two decades, Noreena Hertz’s economic predictions have been accurate and ahead of the curve. In her recent book The Silent Takeover, Hertz predicted that unregulated markets and massive financial institutions would have serious global consequences while her 2005 book IOU The Debt Threat predicted the 2008 financial crisis.,An influential economist on the international stage, Hertz also played an influential role in the development of (RED), an innovative commercial model to raise money for people with AIDS in Africa, having inspired Bono (co-founder of the project) with her writings.
Madeleine,Albright,On being a woman and a diplomat,Former US Secretary of State,www.albrightstonebridge.com/.../madeleine-..,,Madeleine Albright is one of America’s leading authorities on foreign affairs. Unanimously confirmed as the first female Secretary of State in 1997, she became the highest-ranking woman in U.S. government history. During her four-year tenure, Albright reinforced U.S. alliances, advocated for democracy and human rights, and promoted American trade, business, labor and environmental standards abroad.,Since then, Albright has continued her distinguished career as a businesswoman, political adviser and professor. She is chair of Albright Stonebridge Group, a global strategy firm, and Albright Capital Management LLC, an investment advisory firm focused on emerging markets. Albright also chairs the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs and the Pew Global Attitudes Project and serves on the boards of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Aspen Institute and the Center for a New American Security. She also teaches diplomacy at Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service.
Lisa,Gansky,The future of business is the mesh,Entrepreneur, http//meshing.it,,Lisa Gansky is the author of The Mesh Why the Future of Business Is Sharing , and the “instigator” behind the Mesh Directory (http//meshing.it). She often speaks on the topic of technology, social currency and business platforms and models.,For more than 18 years, Gansky has been an entrepreneur and environmentalist focused on building companies and supporting ventures where there is an opportunity for well-timed disruption and a resounding impact. A founder and CEO of several internet companies, including GNN (the first commercial web publication) and the largest consumer photo sharing and print service, Ofoto (now Kodak Gallery), Gansky’s attention is on sustainable ventures with positive social impact. Gansky currently serves as a Director of Dos Margaritas, an environmental foundation focused in Latin America.
Jacqueline,Novogratz,Inspiring a life of immersion,Social entrepreneur,acumen.org/people/board/jacqueline-novogratz/,,One of the most innovative players shaping philanthropy today, Jacqueline Novogratz is redefining the way problems of poverty can be solved around the world. Drawing on her past experience in banking, microfinance and traditional philanthropy, Novogratz has become a leading proponent for financing entrepreneurs and enterprises that can bring affordable clean water, housing and healthcare, energy, agriculture and education to poor people so that they no longer have to depend on the disappointing results and lack of accountability seen in traditional charity and old-fashioned aid .,Acumen , which she founded in 2001, has an ambitious plan to change the way the world tackles poverty . Indeed, Acumen has more in common with a venture capital fund than a typical nonprofit. Rather than handing out grants, Acumen invests in early stage companies and organizations that bring critical -- often life-altering -- products and services to the world's poor. Like VCs, Acumen offers not just money, but also infrastructure and management expertise. From drip-irrigation systems in India to high quality solar lighting solutions in East Africa to a low-cost mortgage program in Pakistan, Acumen's portfolio offers important case studies for entrepreneurial efforts aimed at the vastly underserved market of those making less than $4/day.
Patricia,Kuhl,The linguistic genius of babies,Language, ilabs.washington.edu/kuhl/,,Patricia Kuhl is co-director of the Institute for Brain and Learning Sciences at the University of Washington. She's internationally recognized for her research on early language and brain development, and studies that show how young children learn. Kuhl’s work has played a major role in demonstrating how early exposure to language alters the brain. It has implications for critical periods in development, for bilingual education and reading readiness, for developmental disabilities involving language, and for research on computer understanding of speech.,
Krista,Tippett,Reconnecting with compassion,Journalist,www.onbeing.org/about,,Krista Tippett grew up in Oklahoma, the granddaughter of a Southern Baptist preacher. She studied history at Brown University and went to Bonn, West Germany in 1983 on a Fulbright Scholarship to study politics in Cold War Europe. In her 20s, she ended up in divided Berlin for most of the 1980s, first as The New York Times stringer and a freelance correspondent for Newsweek, The International Herald Tribune, the BBC, and Die Zeit. She later became a special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador to West Germany. When Tippett graduated with a M.Div. from Yale, she saw a black hole where intelligent coverage of religion should be. As she conducted a far-flung oral history project for the Benedictines of St. John's Abbey, she began to imagine radio conversations about the spiritual and intellectual content of faith that could open minds and enrich public life. These imagined conversations became reality when she created Speaking of Faith (now On Being), which is broadcast on over 200 US pubic radio stations and globally by NPR. From ecology to autism to torture, Tippett and her guests reach beyond the headlines to explore meaning, faith and ethics amidst the political, economic, cultural and technological shifts that define 21st century life. Tippett is the author of Speaking of Faith and Einstein's God.,“In a day where religion — or, rather arguments over religion — divide us into ever more entrenched and frustrated camps, Krista Tippett is exactly the measured, balanced commentator we need. Her intelligence is like a salve for all thinking people who have felt wounded or marginalized by The God Wars.” — Elizabeth Gilbert
Geert,Chatrou,A whistleblower you haven't heard,Whistler,www.geertchatrou.com,,Geert Chatrou has been whistling as long as he can remember. He plays the recorder and flute, but prefers whistling -- using only his lips as an instrument. In 2004 he won the whistling World Championships, and returned in 2005 to successfully defend his title. The 2008 World Championships were held in Japan, and Chatrou proved to be the world's best once again. Chatrou was part of a prizewinning documentary about the 2004 International Whistling Convention, made by Emmy winners Kate Davis and David Heilbroner. This documentary, called Pucker Up The Fine Art of Whistling, has been screened in over 40 countries. Together with the Dutch group Ocobar, Chatrou made his debut album, Chatroubadour in 2005, with all songs specially written to fit his virtuoso whistling. In 2008, Chatrou released his latest album, Ornithology, which brings out the whistlability of different music styles -- from jazz to klezmer to classic to pop.,“His spectacular jumps from one note to the other are breathtaking. When he spontaneously whistles a few notes, he immediately touches you.” — De Volkskrant
Michael,Pawlyn,Using nature's genius in architecture,Architect, exploration-architecture.com,,Michael Pawlyn established the architecture firm Exploration in 2007 to focus on environmentally sustainable projects that take their inspiration from nature. Prior to setting up the company, Pawlyn worked with the firm Grimshaw for ten years and was central to the team that radically re-invented horticultural architecture for the Eden Project. He was responsible for leading the design of the Warm Temperate and Humid Tropics Biomes and the subsequent phases that included proposals for a third Biome for plants from dry tropical regions. In 1999 he was one of five winners in A Car-free London, an ideas competition for strategic solutions to the capital’s future transport needs and new possibilities for urban spaces. In September 2003 he joined an intensive course in nature-inspired design at Schumacher College , run by Amory Lovins and Janine Benyus. He has lectured widely on the subject of sustainable design in the UK and abroad.,His Sahara Forest Project, covered in this TEDTalk, recently won major funding >>
Hawa,Abdi,Mother and daughter doctor-heroes,Somali doctors who treat women refugees,www.dhaf.org/,,Dr. Hawa Abdi is an OB/GYN (and a lawyer) who lives and works in Somalia with her daughters, also doctors, Dr. Amina Mohamed and Dr. Dr. Deqo Mohamed. In 1983, she opened a small clinic in Somalia -- which became a refuge as Somalia devolved into civil war. Her one-room clinic has grown to encompass a hospital, a school and a refugee camp for some 90,000 women and children, she estimates, who were displaced by war.,In 2010, Glamour named Dr. Abdi and her daughters Women of the Year, and called them the Saints of Somalia. Nicholas Kristoff wrote a stirring tribute to her work titled Heroic, Female and Muslim. And she works largely on her own, as Glamour notes While Dr. Abdi has gotten some help, many charities refuse to enter Somalia. 'It’s the most dangerous country,' says Kati Marton, a board member of Human Rights Watch. 'Dr. Abdi is just about the only one doing anything.'
Cynthia,Breazeal,The rise of personal robots,Roboticist,cynthiabreazeal.media.mit.edu/,,Cynthia Breazeal founded and directs the Personal Robots Group at MIT’s Media Lab. Her research focuses on developing the principles and technologies for building personal robots that are socially intelligent—that interact and communicate with people in human-centric terms, work with humans as peers, and learn from people as an apprentice.,She has developed some of the world’s most famous robotic creatures, ranging from small hexapod robots to highly expressive humanoids, including the social robot Kismet and the expressive robot Leonardo. Her recent work investigates the impact of social robots on helping people of all ages to achieve personal goals that contribute to quality of life, in domains such as physical performance, learning and education, health, and family communication and play over distance.
Nigel,Marsh,How to make work-life balance work,Author and marketer,nigelmarsh.com/,,,
Suheir,Hammad,Poems of war, peace, women, power,Poet, playwright, SuheirHammad.com,,Suheir Hammad is the author of breaking poems , recipient of a 2009 American Book Award and the Arab American Book award for Poetry 2009. Her other books are ZaatarDiva , Born Palestinian, Born Black , and Drops of This Story . Her work has been widely anthologized and also adapted for theater.,Her produced plays include Blood Trinity and breaking letter(s) , and she wrote the libretto for the multimedia performance Re-Orientalism . An original writer and performer in the Tony-winning Russell Simmons Presents Def Poetry Jam on Broadway , Suheir appears in the 2008 Cannes Film Festival Official Selection Salt of This Sea . She is the Artist in Residency at the NYU’s APA Institute for 2010.
Christopher,McDougall,Are we born to run?,Journalist, runner,chrismcdougall.com,,Longtime reporter Christopher McDougall is also a longtime runner -- and he brings his reporter's passion and eye for detail to the mysteries of running in his latest book. Born to Run examines humanity's inborn need to run and sweat, and it's filled with passion, odd facts, oddly pertinent digressions and deeply engaging journeys to running subcults (and cults-of-one). The book has inspired at least one fan site .,McDougall writes for Outside, Men's Health, New York and other magazines. His other, equally intriguing book, is Girl Trouble The True Saga of Superstar Gloria Trevi and the Secret Teenage Sex Cult That Stunned the World .
Johanna,Blakley,Social media and the end of gender,Media maven,https//johannablakley.wordpress.com/,,As the Deputy Director of the Norman Lear Center (a media-focused think tank at the University of Southern California) Johanna Blakley spends much of her time exploring how our entertainment interacts with our political, commercial and social habits . She is especially interested in the surprising impact of intellectual property rights on innovation, organizing conferences around the lack of creative ownership in fashion as well as technology and the ownership of creative content. Blakley has worked across a huge variety of media platforms -- producing for the web on a large scale, conducting gaming research, coordinating events for film festivals and executing consumer research on entertainment and politics. Drawing on this vast body of experience, she also lectures at USC and helped develop their masters program in Public Diplomacy.,
Dale,Dougherty,We are makers,Tech publisher,dalepd.wordpress.com/,,Dale Dougherty co-founded O'Reilly Media, a technical publisher and conference organizer known for its advocacy of Open Source and the Web. He coined the term Web 2.0 while developing the Web 2.0 Conference. Dougherty started MAKE magazine , which brings the do-it-yourself mindset to everyday technology -- celebrating the right to tweak, hack and bend any technology to your own will. Dougherty is the creator of Maker Faire , which leads a growing maker movement in New York, Detroit and the Bay Area. An early Web pioneer, Dougherty was the developer of Global Network Navigator (GNN), the first commercial Web site launched in 1993. He's a former publisher of Web Review, the online magazine for Web designers. Dougherty developed the Hacks series of books to reclaim the term 'hacking' for the good guys, and he's the author of Sed & Awk .,“Dougherty senses huge potential sitting in the garages around America. Through Make magazine and Maker Faire, he calls out to all tinkerers to share their industry and eccentric inventiveness and bring their ideas into the open.” — BIF
Kate,Orff,Reviving New York's rivers — with oysters!,Landscape architect,scapestudio.com,,Kate Orff is a landscape architect who thinks deeply about sustainable development, biodiversity and community-based change—and suggests some surprising and wonderful ways to make change through landscape. She’s a professor at Columbia’s Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, where she’s a director of the Urban Landscape Lab. She’s the co-editor of the new book Gateway Visions for an Urban National Park , about the Gateway National Recreation Area, a vast and underused tract of land spreading across the coastline of Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and New Jersey.,She is principal of SCAPE, a landscape architecture and urban design of?ce with projects ranging from a 1,000-square-foot pocket park in Brooklyn to a 100-acre environmental center in Greenville, SC, to a 1000-acre land?ll regeneration project in Dublin, Ireland.
Bruce,Feiler,The council of dads,Writer, brucefeiler.com,,Bruce Feiler is the author of nine books, including Walking the Bible, Abraham , and America’s Prophet . He is also the writer/presenter of the PBS miniseries Walking the Bible . His book The Council of Dads tells the uplifting story of how friendship and community can help one survive life’s greatest challenges. Most recently Feiler published The Secrets of Happy Families , in which he calls for a new approach to family dynamics, inspired by cutting-edge techniques gathered from experts in the disciplines of science, business, sports and the military. Feiler’s early books involve immersing himself in different cultures and bringing other worlds vividly to life. These include Learning to Bow , an account of the year he spent teaching in rural Japan, Looking for Class , about life inside Oxford and Cambridge, and Under the Big Top , which depicts the year he spent performing as a clown in the Clyde Beatty-Cole Bros. Circus. Walking the Bible describes his perilous, 10,000-mile journey retracing the Five Books of Moses through the desert. The book was hailed as an “instant classic” by the Washington Post and “thoughtful, informed, and perceptive” by the New York Times .,
Ariel,Garten,Know thyself, with a brain scanner,Artist, scientist and entrepreneur, InteraXon.com,,Ariel Garten is the CEO and co-founder of InteraXon, which creates thought controlled computing products and applications. Ariel has also researched at the Krembil Neuroscience Institute studying hippocampal neurogenesis, displayed work at the Art Gallery of Ontario, been head designer at a fashion label, and opened Toronto Fashion Week. Referred to as the “Brain Guru”, Ariel and her team’s work has been featured in hundreds of articles in over 20 countries.,
Liza,Donnelly,Drawing on humor for change,Cartoonist, LizaDonelly.com,,When Liza Donnelly joined The New Yorker in 1982, she was the youngest cartoonist on staff and one of only three women at the time to draw cartoons for the magazine. She’s still there. In 2005, Donnelly wrote the definitive book about her colleagues Funny Ladies The New Yorker’s Greatest Women Cartoonists and Their Cartoons . She’s been part of many other books, including Sex and Sensibility, Cartoon Marriage (about her life with fellow New Yorker cartoonist Michael Maslin) and a popular series of dinosaur books for kids. Her latest is Women on Men .,In 2007, Donnelly joined the United Nations initiative Cartooning for Peace. She travels worldwide to speak out about freedom of speech, world peace, and other global issues. Along with her New Yorker cartoons, Donnelly writes a column for Forbes, and draws a weekly political cartoon for Medium. She's a founding member of the US branch of the international organization FECO, and has taught at Vassar College and The School of Visual Arts. She received an honorary PhD from the University of Connecticut and is a cultural envoy for the US State Department, traveling to speak about women's rights, freedom of expression and cartoons.
Thomas,Goetz,It's time to redesign medical data,Healthcare communicator, Iodine.com,,Thomas Goetz is the co-founder of Iodine , a new company that gives consumers better information -- and better visualizations -- of their health data. The former executive editor of Wired , Goetz has a Master's of Public Health from UC Berkeley. In 2010 he published The Decision Tree , a fascinating look at modern medical decisionmaking and technology. Former FDA commissioner Dr. David Kessler called the book a game changer.” His next book, The Remedy , explores the germ theory of disease and the quest to cure tuberculosis.,“Public health is an incredibly broad field, covering everything from global health to community health to Medicare to pharmaceuticals. Generally, I use it as a tool to frame the contexts of health and medicine how can we deliver healthcare to our citizens to create the maximum amount of health and happiness?” — Thomas Goetz on thedecisiontree.com/blog
Martin,Jacques,Understanding the rise of China,Writer, columnist, martinjacques.com,,Martin Jacques is the author of When China Rules the World The Rise of the Middle Kingdom and the End of the Western World. He is a Senior Fellow at the Department of Politics and International Studies, Cambridge University, and a Visiting Professor at Tsinghua University, Beijing. He is also a non-resident Fellow at the Transatlantic Academy, Washington DC. He is a columnist for the Guardian and the New Statesman. His interest in East Asia began in 1993 with a holiday in China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia. After that, he found every reason or excuse he could find to spend time in the region, be it personal, for newspaper articles or television programs. In 1977, he became editor of Marxism Today , a post he held for fourteen years, transforming what was an obscure and dull journal into the most influential political publication in Britain, read and respected on the right and left alike. In 1991, he closed Marxism Today and in 1994 became the deputy editor of the Independent newspaper, a post he held until 1996. In 1993 he co-founded the think-tank Demos.,
Heather,Knight,Silicon-based comedy,Roboticist, MarilynMonrobot.com,,Heather Knight is conducting her doctoral research at the intersection of robotics and entertainment at Carnegie Mellon’s Robotics Institute. She runs Marilyn Monrobot in New York, where she and her cohort create “charismatic machine performances.” As she describes it “In one example, robot and human actors will perform the same script and basic set of actions, but each time vary the emotional and social content of those interactions. This variation will ... allow the general public to craft and hone robot personalities.”,Her installations have been featured at the Smithsonian-Cooper Hewitt Design Museum, LACMA, SIGGRAPH, PopTech and the Fortezza da Basso in Florence, Italy. Her past work also includes robotics and instrumentation at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, interactive installations with Syyn Labs (including the award- winning Rube Goldberg machine music video with OK Go), and sensor design at Aldebaran Robotics. She was recently named Assistant Director of Robotics at Humanity+.
Anders,Ynnerman,Visualizing the medical data explosion,Scientific visualization expert,scivis.itn.liu.se/members/anders-ynnerman,,Professor Anders Ynnerman received a Ph.D. in physics from Gothenburg University. During the early 90s he was doing research at Oxford University and Vanderbilt University. In 1996 he started the Swedish National Graduate School in Scientific Computing, which he directed until 1999. From 1997 to 2002 he directed the Swedish National Supercomputer Centre and from 2002 to 2006 he directed the Swedish National Infrastructure for Computing (SNIC). Since 1999 he is holding a chair in scientific visualization at Linköping University and in 2000 he founded the Norrköping Visualization and Interaction Studio (NVIS). NVIS currently constitutes one of the main focal points for research and education in computer graphics and visualization in the Nordic region. Ynnerman is currently heading the build-up of a large scale center for Visualization in Norrköping.,
Van,Jones,The economic injustice of plastic,Social justice and green energy activist, vanjones.net,,Anthony Van Jones is founder of the Ella Baker Center for human rights, based in Oakland, California, and of Green for All, an NGO dedicated to building an inclusive green economy strong enough to lift people out of poverty. His work points to the connection between green energy and job creation. He's the author of The Green Collar Economy How One Solution Can Fix Our Two Biggest Problems . In 2009, US President Obama appointed Jones his Special Advisor on Green Jobs, Jones resigned the position later that year.,Jones is a senior fellow at the Center For American Progress and a senior policy advisor at Green For All. He holds a joint appointment at Princeton as a distinguished visiting fellow in both the Center for African American Studies and in the Program in Science, Technology and Environmental Policy at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs.
Charity,Tillemann-Dick,Singing after a double lung transplant,Soprano, charitysunshine.com,,Charity Sunshine Tillemann-Dick is an American-born soprano. She has performed across the United States, Europe, and Asia in venues as diverse as The Kennedy Center in Washington, DC, Severance Hall in Cleveland, Ohio, Il Giardino Di Boboli in Florence, Italy, The National Symphony Hall in Budapest, Hungary, The Tel Aviv Opera House in Israel, and the American Embassy in Beijing, China. She studied music at the Peabody Conservatory at Johns Hopkins University and the Liszt Academy of Music in Budapest. She has collaborated and performed with noted conductors and musicians Bruno Rigacci, Joella Jones, Marvin Hamlisch, Bono, Zoltán Kocsis, Joan Dornemann, Eva Marton, and former Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice. Some of her operatic roles have included Titania in A Midsummer's Night Dream , Gilda in Rigoletto and Violetta in La Traviata . She has performed for presidents, prime ministers, members of Congress, and world dignitaries. Her performances have been broadcast around the world on the BBC, IRA, Bartok Radio, MTV, PBS and NPR. Tillemann-Dick has served as the national spokesperson for the Pulmonary Hypertension Association, working to raise awareness, increase federal research funding, expand stem cell research, and promote preventative and alternative medicine.,
Naomi,Klein,Addicted to risk,Author, Activist, NaomiKlein.org,,In the January 31, 2011, edition of The Nation , Naomi Klein reports from one of the highest-profile failures of 2010 the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. And what she finds is a cascade of unintended consequences arising from a massive corporate risk.,In her 2007 book The Shock Doctrine The Rise of Disaster Capitalism , Naomi Klein makes the case that corporations (and capitalism-friendly governments) not only profit from disaster and conflict, but actively work to exploit countries in crisis. The “shock doctrine,” as Klein defines it, falls into place after a terrorist attack, a killer hurricane, a regime change—when corporate interests swoop in on a disoriented people to rewrite the rules in favor of commerce and globalization. In her deeply historical, carefully sourced book, Klein shows the link between commerce and crisis. The Shock Doctrine was adapted into a feature-length documentary by Michael Winterbottom, it premiered at the Sundance in 2010.
Ali,Carr-Chellman,Gaming to re-engage boys in learning,Instructional designer, ed.psu.edu,,A former third-grade teacher, Ali Carr-Chellman realized that traditional elementary classrooms weren't for her, in part because she was frustrated by the lack of innovation, agility, and readiness to change in traditional schools. She's now an instructional designer, author and educator, working on how to change and innovate within schools to make education work better for more kids. She teaches at Penn State University in the College of Education, working primarily with doctoral-level students to help produce the next generation of faculty with inspired research ideas and methods. Carr-Chellman also teaches online courses focused on helping practicing teachers learn how to improve their own instructional design practices and how to improve their classrooms. Her recent research projects include Bring Back the Boys, looking at ways gaming can be used to re-engage boys in their elementary education. Another projects asks prisoners and homeless people to think about how to reform schools, bringing new voices to the policy-making table.,“Wow. This was really something. I went to college for 3D Animations/Video Game Design and it was the only time in my entire life where I felt comfortable and good at something. I actually felt smart! I would go on and? on about how awesome my school was and I just never wanted to stop talking about it. It's an amazing feeling knowing you feel smart about something. ” — someidiot23 on YouTube
Elizabeth,Lesser,Take the Other to lunch,Writer, healer,eomega.org,,Elizabeth Lesser is the co-founder of Omega Institute, the US’ largest lifelong learning center focusing on health, wellness, spirituality, creativity and social change. She’s the author of Broken Open How Difficult Times Can Help Us Grow and The Seeker’s Guide Making Your Life a Spiritual Adventure. For more than 30 years Lesser has worked with leading figures in the fields of healing—healing self and healing society.,For the past ten years, Lesser has spearheaded Omega’s popular Women and Power conferences, renowned gatherings featuring women leaders, authors, activists and artists from around the world. In 2008 she helped Oprah Winfrey produce a ten-week online seminar based on Eckhart Tolle’s book A New Earth, viewed by more than 2 million people worldwide. Since then, she has appeared several times on the Oprah Winfrey television show and Oprah.com webcasts, and is an ongoing host on Oprah’s Soul Series, a weekly radio show on Sirius/XM.
Thomas,Thwaites,How I built a toaster — from scratch,Designer, thomasthwaites.com,,Thomas Thwaites calls himself a designer (of a more speculative sort). His thoughtful projects look deeply at the science behind technology, as in the Toaster Project, which sent spiralling him into the history and techniques of metallurgy and plastics production, and Policing Genes , a thought experiment around amateur genetics. We will not mention Honeytrap , an attempt to explore modern criminality through a bicycle theft gone horribly wrong. He's currently working on a project investigating counterfactual histories in science, supported by the Wellcome Trust.,
Amber,Case,We are all cyborgs now,Cyborg Anthropologist, OakHazelnut.com,,Amber Case is a cyborg anthropologist, examining the way humans and technology interact and evolve together. Like all anthropologists, Case watches people, but her fieldwork involves observing how they participate in digital networks, analyzing the various ways we project our personalities, communicate, work, play, share ideas and even form values. Case founded Geoloqi.com, a private location-sharing application, out of a frustration with existing social protocols around text messaging and wayfinding.,Case, who predicts that intensification of the human-technology interface will quickly reduce the distance between individual and community, believes that the convergence of technologies will bring about unprecedented rapid learning and communication. Dubbed a digital philosopher, Case applies her findings to such fields as information architecture, usability and online productivity. She’s currently working on a book about using anthropological techniques to understand industry ecosystems.
Jody,Williams,A realistic vision for world peace,Nobel peace laureate,nobelwomensinitiative.org,,In more than 100 years of Nobel Peace Prizes, only a dozen women have ever won. Civil-rights and peace activist Jody Williams, received the award in 1997 as the chief strategist of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines , which established the ?rst global treaty banning antipersonnel mines.,Williams believes that peace is de?ned by human (not national) security and that it must be achieved through sustainable development, environmental justice, and meeting people’s basic needs. To this end, she co-founded the Nobel Women’s Initiative, endorsed by six of seven living female Peace laureates. She chairs the effort to support activists, researchers, and others working toward peace, justice, and equality for women and thus humanity. Williams also continues to ?ght for the total global eradication of landmines.
Neil,Pasricha,The 3 A's of awesome,Blogger, author,1000awesomethings.com/,,Neil Pasricha never imagined that writing about the smell of gasoline, thinking it’s Thursday when it’s really Friday, or wearing underwear just out of the dryer would amount to anything. A self-described “average guy” with a typical 9-to-5 job in the suburbs, Neil started his blog 1000 Awesome Things, as a small reminder — in a world of rising sea levels, global conflict, and a troubled economy — of the free, easy little joys that make life sweet.,He certainly didn’t anticipate that his site would gain a readership of millions of people, win two Webby Awards (“the Internet’s highest honor” according to The New York Times), be named one of PC Magazine’s Top 100 Sites On the Internet, or become a place where people from around the world would come to celebrate the simple pleasures of daily life. His just released first book The Book of Awesome has become a #1 International Bestseller and The Book of Awesome 2 comes out in Spring, 2011.
Deborah,Rhodes,A test that finds 3x more breast tumors, and why it's not available to you,Physician, cancer researcher,mayoresearch.mayo.edu/imaging_program,,For all of the lives it saves, mammography still cannot detect the early onset of breast cancer in as many as one of every four women ages 40 to 49. And women with dense breast tissue are four to six times more likely to develop cancer than others. Deborah Rhodes and her colleagues at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota think they’ve found an effective way to screen these high-risk patients molecular imaging.,Rhodes, who specializes in evaluating and managing breast cancer, is collaborating with a nuclear physicist and various radiologists on a dual-head “gamma camera” that can capture the tiny tumors in dense tissue. The new technique, which would complement (not replace) mammography, is sensitive enough to pick up a mass two-?fths of an inch in diameter. Molecular breast imaging requires patients to be injected with a radioactive drug, but it is much more comfortable than the vise-grip mammogram and is expected to cost only slightly more.
Charles,Limb,Your brain on improv,Researcher,hopkinsmedicine.org,,Charles Limb has two titles on his official website Associate Professor, Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery, and Faculty, Peabody Conservatory of Music. He combines his two passions to study the way the brain creates and perceives music. He's a hearing specialist and surgeon at Johns Hopkins who performs cochlear implantations on patients who have lost their hearing. And he plays sax, piano and bass.,In search of a better understanding of how the mind perceives complex auditory stimuli such as music, he's been working with Allen Braun to look at the brains of improvising musicians and study what parts of the brain are involved in the kind of deep creativity that happens when a musician is really in the groove.
Lesley,Hazleton,On reading the Koran,Accidental theologist, accidentaltheologist.com,,A psychologist by training and Middle East reporter by experience, British-born Lesley Hazleton has spent the last ten years exploring the vast and often terrifying arena in which politics and religion, past and present, intersect. She's written about the history of the Sunni/Shi'a split, as well as books on two of the Bible's most compelling female figures Mary and Jezebel. Her latest book is The First Muslim , a new look at the life of Muhammad, the founder of Islam. In researching her book, she sat and read the full Koran again -- exploring the beauty and subtlety in this often-misquoted holy book. As she says  I’m always asking questions — not to find “answers,” but to see where the questions lead. Dead ends sometimes? That’s fine. New directions? Interesting. Great insights? Over-ambitious. A glimpse here and there? Perfect.,“Very interesting perspective. Her talk has motivated me to read and learn more about the Koran and make up my own mind rather than get second hand information filled with hate.” — Alan Klein, commenting at Informed Comment, juancole.comArianna,Huffington,How to succeed? Get more sleep,Journalist, huffingtonpost.com,,,
Barry,Schwartz,Using our practical wisdom,Psychologist, Barry Schwartz
Column Practical Wisdom in PsychToday,,In his 2004 book The Paradox of Choice , Barry Schwartz tackles one of the great mysteries of modern life Why is it that societies of great abundance — where individuals are offered more freedom and choice (personal, professional, material) than ever before — are now witnessing a near-epidemic of depression? Conventional wisdom tells us that greater choice is for the greater good, but Schwartz argues the opposite  He makes a compelling case that the abundance of choice in today's western world is actually making us miserable. Infinite choice is paralyzing, Schwartz argues, and exhausting to the human psyche. It leads us to set unreasonably high expectations, question our choices before we even make them and blame our failures entirely on ourselves. His relatable examples, from consumer products (jeans, TVs, salad dressings) to lifestyle choices (where to live, what job to take, who and when to marry), underscore this central point Too much choice undermines happiness. Schwartz's previous research has addressed morality, decision-making and the varied inter-relationships between science and society. Before Paradox he published The Costs of Living , which traces the impact of free-market thinking on the explosion of consumerism -- and the effect of the new capitalism on social and cultural institutions that once operated above the market, such as medicine, sports, and the law . Both books level serious criticism of modern western society, illuminating the under-reported psychological plagues of our time. But they also offer concrete ideas on addressing the problems , from a personal and societal level.,“Whether choosing a health-care plan, choosing a college class or even buying a pair of jeans, Schwartz shows that a bewildering array of choices floods our exhausted brains, ultimately restricting instead of freeing us.” — Publisher’s Weekly
Brené,Brown,The power of vulnerability,Vulnerability researcher, brenebrown.com,,Brené Brown is a research professor at the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work . She has spent the past ten years studying vulnerability, courage, authenticity, and shame. She spent the first five years of her decade-long study focusing on shame and empathy, and is now using that work to explore a concept that she calls Wholeheartedness. She poses the questions,How do we learn to embrace our vulnerabilities and imperfections so that we can engage in our lives from a place of authenticity and worthiness? How do we cultivate the courage, compassion, and connection that we need to recognize that we are enough – that we are worthy of love, belonging, and joy?
Majora,Carter,3 stories of local eco-entrepreneurship,Activist for environmental justice,www.majoracartergroup.com/,,Majora Carter is a visionary voice in city planning who views urban renewal through an environmental lens. The South Bronx native draws a direct connection between ecological, economic and social degradation. Hence her motto Green the ghetto!,With her inspired ideas and fierce persistence, Carter managed to bring the South Bronx its first open-waterfront park in 60 years, Hunts Point Riverside Park . Then she scored $1.25 million in federal funds for a greenway along the South Bronx waterfront , bringing the neighborhood open space, pedestrian and bike paths, and space for mixed-use economic development.
Sheryl,Sandberg,Why we have too few women leaders,COO, Facebook,leanin.org/,,Long before Sheryl Sandberg left Google to join Facebook as its Chief Operating Of?cer in 2008, she was a fan. Today she manages Facebook’s sales, marketing, business development, human resources, public policy and communications. It’s a massive job, but one well suited to Sandberg, who not only built and managed Google’s successful online sales and operations program but also served as an economist for the World Bank and Chief of Staff at the US Treasury Department. Sandberg’s experience navigating the the complex and socially sensitive world of international economics has proven useful as she and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg work to strike a balance between helping Facebook users control privacy while ?nding ways to monetize its most valuable asset data.,At TEDWomen in 2010 Sandberg made the bold decision to talk about the experience of being one of very few women at the C-level of business. She noted that many women, in anticipating having a family, lean back from leading at work. After her TED Talk took off, Sandberg wrote the book Lean In , which has spent nearly a year on the New York Times Bestseller list. Sandberg plans to release a version of the book for graduates.
Beverly,+,Life lessons from big cats,Conservationists, filmmakers,greatplainsconservation.com/,,For nearly three decades, conservationists Beverly and Dereck Joubert have celebrated nature and wildlife in documentaries, books, scientific journals, photographs and magazine articles. The couple’s arresting visual work—which includes the widely viewed film Eternal Enemies Lions and Hyena -- has earned them five Emmys and many other awards. The Jouberts, both National Geographic Explorers in Residence based in Botswana, are dedicated to understanding and preserving key species throughout the African continent. The couple is particularly interested in large predators, and lead the Big Cats Initiative, a campaign to stop dwindling populations and bolster public awareness.,Beverly and Dereck are also building a new model for preservation as partners in Great Plains Conservation. Striking a balance of preservation, community and commerce, GPC aims to save endangered habitats in Africa and surrounding the Indian Ocean through low-impact tourism and the sale of carbon credits and villas or bush homes.
Ken,Robinson,Changing education paradigms,Author/educator,sirkenrobinson.com/,,Why don't we get the best out of people? Sir Ken Robinson argues that it's because we've been educated to become good workers, rather than creative thinkers. Students with restless minds and bodies -- far from being cultivated for their energy and curiosity -- are ignored or even stigmatized, with terrible consequences. We are educating people out of their creativity, Robinson says. It's a message with deep resonance. Robinson's TEDTalk has been distributed widely around the Web since its release in June 2006. The most popular words framing blog posts on his talk? Everyone should watch this.,A visionary cultural leader, Sir Ken led the British government's 1998 advisory committee on creative and cultural education, a massive inquiry into the significance of creativity in the educational system and the economy , and was knighted in 2003 for his achievements. His 2009 book, The Element How Finding Your Passion Changes Everything , is a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 21 languages. A 10th anniversary edition of his classic work on creativity and innovation, Out of Our Minds Learning to be Creative , was published in 2011. His latest book, Finding Your Element How to Discover Your Talents and Passions and Transform Your Life , will be published by Viking in May 2013.
Rachel,Botsman,The case for collaborative consumption,Sharing Innovator, rachelbotsman.com,,Rachel Botsman is the co-author, with Roo Rogers, of the book What's Mine Is Yours The Rise of Collaborative Consumption , and she writes, consults and speaks on the power of collaboration and sharing through network technologies, and on how it will transform business, consumerism and the way we live. Her new work focuses on trust and reputation capital.,She is the founder of The Collaborative Lab , an innovation incubator that works with startups, big businesses and local governments to deliver innovative solutions based on the ideas of Collaborative Consumption. She has consulted to Fortune 500 companies and leading nonprofit organizations around the world on brand and innovation strategy, and was a former director at the William J. Clinton Foundation .
Rufus,Griscom,Let's talk parenting taboos,Website co-founders, Babble.com,,Alisa Volkman co-founded Babble with her husband, Rufus Griscom, in December 2006, and has spent the past four years growing the site to attract more than 4 million parents a month. As VP of Sales Strategy and Brand Development, Volkman oversees design, influences product development, and creates and sells custom ad programs.,Griscom serves as Babble’s CEO. He was co-founder of the pathbreaking Nerve.com in 1997, as the website’s founding editor and CEO. In the decade that followed, Griscom grew Nerve Media into a profitable website and online dating business, in the process spinning off Spring Street Networks. He serves as an advisor to several New York-based internet companies. Volkman and Griscom have three sons, Declan, Grey and the brand-new Rye.
Diana,Laufenberg,How to learn? From mistakes,Educator,laufenberg.wordpress.com/,,A farm kid from Wisconsin, Diana Laufenberg has taught all grade levels from 7-12 in Social Studies. Laufenberg most recently taught at the Science Leadership Academy (SLA), one of Philadelphia’s newer high schools, in partnership with the Franklin Institute.,In 2013, Laufenberg partnered with Chris Lehmann to start Inquiry Schools , a new non-profit working to create and support learning environments that are inquiry-driven and project-based and which utilize modern technology. She currently serves as the Managing Director and Lead Teacher for Inquiry Schools.
Hanna,Rosin,New data on the rise of women,Journalist,theatlantic.com,,Hanna Rosin is the sort of journalist who dares to articulate what people are thinking – only they hadn’t realized it yet. Born in Israel and raised in Queens, the co-founder of women’s site DoubleX (an offshoot of Slate) and contributing editor at the Atlantic Monthly is probably best known for the furor raised by her article titled (not by her) “The End of Men” —which asserts that the era of male dominance has come to an end as women gain power in the postindustrial economy. A similar furor greeted her well-researched piece “The Case Against Breastfeeding,” which questioned the degree to which scienti?c evidence supports breast-feeding’s touted bene?ts.,Rosin has covered religion and politics for the Washington Post and contributes to such publications as the New Yorker and the New Republic. Her book God’s Harvard A Christian College on a Mission to Save America peers into the inner workings of Patrick Henry College, a seven-year school for evangelical Christians aspiring to political and cultural in?uence.
Kiran,Bedi,A police chief with a difference,Corrections pioneer, KiranBedi.com,,Before she retired in 2007, Kiran Bedi was one of India’s top cops. As the first and highest-ranking female officer in the national police force, she earned a reputation for being tough yet innovative on the job. Her efforts to prevent crime, reform prisons, end drug abuse, and support women’s causes earned her a Roman Magsaysay Award, the Asian equivalent of the Nobel Prize. Bedi also served as a police adviser to the UN Secretary General.,In retirement, Bedi has become one of the most trusted and admired community leaders in India. She advocates for social change and civic responsibility through her books, columns, and a popular reality-TV show. She reaches out to more than 10,000 people daily through her two NGOs, Navjyoti and India Vision Foundation, which provide education, training, counseling and health care to the urban and rural poor. Her latest initiative, Mission Safer India, aims to ensure that police log and address citizen complaints. Her life is the subject of the 2008 documentary Yes, Madam Sir , narrated by Helen Mirren.
Tony,Porter,A call to men,Educator, A Call to Men,acalltomen.com,,Tony Porter is the visionary and co-founder behind the nonpro?t A Call to Men The National Association of Men and Women Committed to Ending Violence Against Women. Porter’s message of engagement and self-examination has connected powerfully with numerous domestic and sexual violence programs for such high-pro?le groups as the National Football League and the National Basketball Association, and colleges and universities around the country, including the US Military Academy at West Point and the US Naval Academy at Annapolis. Porter is also an international lecturer for the U.S. State Department, having done extensive work in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.,He is a faculty member of the New York State Of?ce of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services Academy of Addiction Studies, where he co-authored their curriculum for clinicians who work with chemically dependent African-Americans. He also specializes in developing social justice models for human service organizations.
Halla,Tomasdottir,A feminine response to Iceland's financial crash,Change agent, financial services,audurcapital.is/english,,Halla Tomasdottir believes that women’s values are key to solving Iceland’s economic crisis. In 2007, Halla and her business partner, Kristin Petursdottir, co-founded Audur Capital to bring greater diversity, social responsibility, and “feminine values” to the ?nancial services industry. These values include independence, risk awareness, straight talk, emotional capital, and pro?t with principles. And Audur’s approach appears to be working. The investment ?rm’s innovative offerings—such as the national green-tech investment fund they set up with pop icon and homegirl Björk—may just help save banking in Iceland.,Halla began her career in corporate America, working for heavyweights like M&M/Mars and Pepsi-Cola. Back home, she helped create a foundation and the executive education and women entrepreneurship programs at Reykjavik University. Halla later became managing director of the Iceland’s Chamber of Commerce, she left her post to start Audur. The company is named after an early Viking settler, Audur the Wise, whose moniker signi?es wealth, happiness, and clear space.
Arthur,Potts,A vision for sustainable restaurants,Green chef,arthurpotts.onmpp.ca/,,Which came first, epicure or eco-warrior? For 23 years, Arthur Potts Dawson has worked alongside Britain's most respected chefs, including Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall and Jamie Oliver. But his interest in food began during childhood, on a Dorset farm. There was never much money around when I was growing up, he says. We learned to turn lights off, put a jumper on instead of the heating.,This thrifty sensibility found expression in his acclaimed London restaurants Acorn House and Water House, opened in 2006. From rooftop gardens to low-energy refrigerators and wormeries that turn food waste into compost, these restaurants prove the profitability of an eco-friendly approach -- and serve as training grounds for the next generation of green chefs. Potts Dawson is now taking his crusade to kitchen tables, launching The People's Supermarket, a member-run cooperative supporting British farms, and cooking for Mrs Paisley's Lashings, a supper club whose profits fund urban gardens in London schools.
Bart,Weetjens,How I taught rats to sniff out land mines,Product developer,Apopo.org,,Dutch product designer Bart Weetjens works with locals in Morogoro, Tanzania, to trains rats to do something astonishing sniff out land mines. (The African giant pouched rat, the species used in the project, is wide­spread in the region.) The rats that pass the train­ing -- and the same rigorous testing applied to land mine-sniffing canines -- become what Weetjens calls  HeroRATS . Weet­jens and Apopo.org are now applying a similar approach to other fields, training rats to diagnose tuber­cu­lo­sis in hospitals.,
Marcel,Dicke,Why not eat insects?,Ecological entomologist,https//www.wageningenur.nl/en/Persons/prof.dr.-M-Marcel-Dicke.htm,,Marcel Dicke likes challenging preconceptions. He demonstrated that plants, far from being passive, send SOS signals by emitting volatile substances when under attack by pests, attracting carnivorous insects to eat their enemies. Dicke opened a new field of research and won the NWO-Spinoza award, the Dutch Nobel prize. Now he wants to change Western minds about insects -- especially insects as food.,People hate bugs, but without insects we might not even exist, he says. Dicke's PR crusade began in the 1990s, as a lecture series. Then his team made world headlines when they convinced 20,000 people to attend an insect-eating festival in Waginegen. Today, Dicke leads what he says is fast-growing research into insect agriculture, and predicts that insects will be on Dutch supermarket shelves this year. And does the former vegetarian eat bugs? At least once a week. Locusts are nice cooked with garlic and herbs, served with rice or vegetables.
William,Ury,The walk from no to yes,Mediator, williamury.com,,William L. Ury co-founded Harvard's Program on Negotiation and is currently a Senior Fellow of the Harvard Negotiation Project. He is the author of The Power of a Positive No How to Say No & Still Get to Yes , and co-author (with Roger Fisher) of Getting to Yes Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In , translated into 30+ languages. He is also author of the award-winning Getting Past No Negotiating with Difficult People and Getting To Peace (released in paperback under the title The Third Side ). Over the last 30 years, Ury has served as a negotiation adviser and mediator in conflicts ranging from corporate mergers to wildcat strikes in a Kentucky coal mine to ethnic wars in the Middle East, the Balkans, and the former Soviet Union. With former president Jimmy Carter, he co- founded the International Negotiation Network, a non-governmental body seeking to end civil wars around the world. During the 1980s, he helped the US and Soviet governments create nuclear crisis centers designed to avert an accidental nuclear war. In that capacity, he served as a consultant to the Crisis Management Center at the White House. More recently, Ury has served as a third party in helping to end a civil war in Aceh, Indonesia, and helping to prevent one in Venezuela. Ury has taught negotiation to tens of thousands of corporate executives, labor leaders, diplomats and military officers around the world. He helps organizations try to reach mutually profitable agreements with customers, suppliers, unions, and joint-venture partners.,
Birke,Baehr,What's wrong with our food system,Aspiring organic farmer,www.birkeonthefarm.com/,,At age 9, while traveling with his family and being roadschooled, Birke Baehr began studying sustainable and organic farming practices such as composting, vermiculture, canning and food preservation. Soon he discovered his other passion educating others -- especially his peers -- about the destructiveness of the industrialized food system , and the alternatives. He spoke at TEDxNextGenerationAsheville in 2010. Baehr volunteers at the Humane Society and loves working with animals.,
Dan,Phillips,Creative houses from reclaimed stuff,Builder, phoenixcommotion.com,,Dan Phillips is a designer and builder in Huntsville, Texas. In 1998, he and his wife, Marsha, started The Phoenix Commotion, a construction company that builds affordable houses from reclaimed and recycled materials. Their mission is to divert landfill waste while creating sustainable housing for single mothers, artists, and families with low incomes. The Phoenix Commotion keeps labor costs low while reclaiming human potential. They use an apprentice program to teach sustainable building skills to individuals that volunteer or intern on the Phoenix Commotion Crew.,The houses are energy-efficient, cheap and satisfying to build -- and wildly, effervescently creative. To the Phillipses, any material used in enough multiples creates a beautiful pattern -- so Phoenix Commotion homes are covered and decorated with salvaged materials of many stripes. Homes are built in concert with their eventual owner, who contributes sweat equity and their own artistic flair.
Jason,Fried,Why work doesn't happen at work,Software entrepreneur, 37signals.com,,Jason Fried is the co-founder and president of 37signals , a Chicago-based company that builds web-based productivity tools that, in their words, do less than the competition -- intentionally. 37signals' simple but powerful collaboration tools include Basecamp, Highrise, Backpack, Campfire, Ta-da List, and Writeboard. 37signals also developed and open-sourced the Ruby on Rails programming framework.,Fried is the co-author, with David Heinemeier Hansson , of the book Rework , about new ways to conceptualize working and creating. Salon's Scott Rosenberg called it a minimalist manifesto that's profoundly practical. In a world where we all keep getting asked to do more with less, the authors show us how to do less and create more.
Zainab,Salbi,Women, wartime and the dream of peace,Activist and social entrepreneur,www.zainabsalbi.com/,,In her memoir Hidden in Plain Sight Growing Up in the Shadow of Saddam , Zainab Salbi writes of being raised in Saddam Hussein's inner circle -- her father was Saddam's personal pilot. She left Iraq for an arranged marriage in the US, which quickly became another form of tyranny. But in 1993, when she heard of the rape and concentration camps in Bosnia, she realized she could no longer remain passive. Salbi founded Women for Women International to help women who are victims of war in every way -- from those who've been physically harmed to those who suffer from the poverty that war and strife inevitably bring. WFWI provides economic and emotional aid, job-skills training, and rights education, empowering women to stop the cycle of violence and create social change.,In her latest book, The Other Side of War , she shares personal stories of women's experience in conflict. As she writes War is not a computer-generated missile striking a digital map. War is the color of earth as it explodes in our faces, the sound of child pleading, the smell of smoke and fear. Women survivors of war are not the single image portrayed on the television screen, but the glue that holds families and countries together. Perhaps by understanding women, and the other side of war ... we will have more humility in our discussions of wars... perhaps it is time to listen to women's side of history.
Kim,Gorgens,Protecting the brain against concussion,Neuropsychologist,kimgorgens.com/,,As a neuropsychologist working in the field of brain injuries, Kim Gorgens has seen firsthand the damage sports-related impacts can do. And as chair of the State of Colorado Traumatic Brain Injury Trust Fund Board and a member of the Brain Injury Legislative Collaborative, she’s working to shape Colorado law around youth sports injuries.,Gorgens, an assistant clinical professor in the University of Denver Graduate School of Professional Psychology, also is the president-elect of the Colorado Neuropsychological Society and has an appointment to the American Psychological Association’s Council on Disability in Psychology.
Kristina,Gjerde,Making law on the high seas,High seas policy advisor,cmsdata.iucn.org...,,Kristina Gjerde is an expert in the law of marine conservation. She's the high-seas policy advisor for IUCN , the International Union for Conservation of Nature, where she helps communities and governments find practical solutions to protect the environment. Her focus is on the tricky areas of the sea and seabed that exist beyond any national jurisdiction. These places belong to the world, Gjerde's work aims to help the world work together to protect them.,Gjerde's working with the Census of Marine Life and other scientific organizations to establish the Global Ocean Biodiversity Initiative, an effort to identify areas of special ecological or biological importance in the high seas and seabed. She's using her legal and scientific expertise to seek protection for these special areas as part of a global network of marine protected areas.
John,Hardy,My green school dream,Designer, educator,www.johnhardy.com/,,After selling his jewelry company in 2007, John Hardy and his wife, Cynthia, endowed a thrilling new project the Green School in Bali. At the Green School, kids learn in open-air classrooms surrounded by acres of gardens that they tend, they learn to build with bamboo, and meanwhile they're being prepared for traditional British school exams. The school is international -- 20 percent of students are Bali locals, some on scholarship. The centerpiece of the campus is the spiraling Heart of School, which may be called Asia's largest bamboo building.,Hardy has long been an advocate of the use of bamboo as an alternative to timber for building and reforestation. When running his company, Hardy pioneered a program of sustainable advertising that offset the carbon emissions associated with the yearly corporate print advertising by planting bamboo on the island of Nusa Penida in a cooperative plantation.
Shimon,Schocken,What a bike ride can teach you,Computer Scientist, Educator, ShimonSchocken.com,,Shimon Schocken is a former dean at Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya , a new Israeli private university which he helped found in 1995. He's also taught at NYU, Harvard and Stanford. Together with Noam Nisan he developed a freely available, open-source, self-paced program for learning applied computer science The Elements of Computing Systems . Offered in 2005, this led to one of the first successful open online courses. Now, courses based on the approach are offered by traditional universities as well as in crowd-sourced settings, and have been taken freely by thousands of self-learners over the web. Registration, lecture and project schedules are managed by volunteer course coordinators, and student questions are answered by the course alumni community.,His current project focuses on developing instructional materials for early-age math education, which he thinks can be transformed using low-cost tablet computers. He uses his other life passion, mountain biking, to teach adolescent boys in Israel?s juvenile detention centers valuable life lessons through challenging bike rides in remote locations. He was co-organizer and program chair of TEDxTelAviv 2010 .
Denis,Dutton,A Darwinian theory of beauty,Philosopher, DenisDutton.com,,Why do humans take pleasure in making art? In his 2009 book The Art Instinct , philosopher Denis Dutton suggested that art is a need built into our systems, a complex and subtle evolutionary adaptation comparable to our facility for language. We humans evolved to love art because it helps us survive, for example, a well-expressed appreciation of art can -- even in modern times -- help us to find a mate. It’s a bold argument to make, bolstered by examples from the breadth of art history that Dutton kept at his fingertips.,Dutton taught philosophy at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, and was the editor of Arts & Letters Daily , a three-column compendium of culture news from all over the web. ( His own homepage is another storehouse of tidbits from his wide-ranging explorations in philosophy and culture.) He was on the advisory board of Cybereditions, a publisher specializing in ebooks and print-on-demand editions of nonfiction works. And he was an editor of Climate Debate Daily , a lively blog that takes a skeptical view of some climate-change arguments.
Conrad,Wolfram,Teaching kids real math with computers,Mathematician, conradwolfram.com,,Conrad Wolfram is the strategic director of Wolfram Research, where his job, in a nutshell, is understanding and finding new uses for the Mathematica technology . Wolfram is especially passionate about finding uses for Mathematica outside of pure computation, using it as a development platform for products that help communicate big ideas. The Demonstrations tool, for instance, makes a compelling case for never writing out another equation -- instead displaying data in interactive, graphical form.,Wolfram's work points up the changing nature of math in the past 30 years, as we've moved from adding machines to calculators to sophisticated math software, allowing us to achieve ever more complex computational feats . But, Wolfram says, many schools are still focused on hand-calculating, using automation, such as a piece of software, to do math is sometimes seen as cheating. This keeps schools from spending the time they need on the new tools of science and mathematics. As they gain significance for everyday living, he suggests, we need to learn to take advantage of these tools and learn to use them young. Learn more at computerbasedmath.org.
Eric,Berlow,Simplifying complexity,Ecologist, EricLBerlow.net,,Eric Berlow is an ecologist and network scientist who specializes in not specializing. A TED Senior Fellow, Berlow is recognized for his research on food webs and ecological networks and for creative approaches to complex problems. He was the founding director of the University of California's first environmental science center inside Yosemite National Park, where he continues to develop data-driven approaches to managing natural ecosystems.,In 2012 Berlow founded Vibrant Data Labs , which builds tools to use data for social good. Berlow's current projects range from helping spark an egalitarian personal data economy to protecting endangered amphibians in Yosemite to crowd-sourcing novel insights about human creativity. Berlow holds a Ph.D. from Oregon State University in marine ecology.
Auret,van,Making global labor fair,Labor-rights activist,www.fairlabor.org/.../auretvanheerden_steppingd...,,Raised in apartheid South Africa, Auret van Heerden became an activist early. As a student, he agitated for workers' rights and co-wrote a book on trade unionism, he was tortured and placed in solitary confinement, then exiled in 1987. (Later, in post-apartheid South Africa, he became labor attaché to the South African mission to the UN.) For the past decade he's been the president and CEO of the Fair Labor Association, or FLA, an initiative that brings together companies, NGOs and universities to develop and keep up international labor standards in global supply chains.,Founded in 1999, the FLA grew out of a task force convened by President Clinton to investigate and end child labor and other sweatshop practices. Difficult enough in the US, protecting labor is even more complex in the global economy, with its multiple sets of laws and layers of contractors and outsourcers. Policing the entire chain is impossible, so the FLA works instead to help all parties agree that protecting workers is the best way to do business, and agree on voluntary initiatives to get there. The FLA worked with Apple Computer, for example, to inspect its global factories and seek raises and better working conditions at the Foxconn plant in China.
Aaron,Huey,America's native prisoners of war,Photographer,aaronhuey.com/,,Aaron Huey is a masthead photographer for National Geographic Adventure and National Geographic Traveler magazines. His stories from Afghanistan, Haiti, Mali, Siberia, Yemen and French Polynesia (to name just a few) on subjects as diverse as the Afghan drug war and the underwater photography of sharks, can be found in The New Yorker , National Geographic and The New York Times . Huey serves on the board of directors for the nonprofit Blue Earth Alliance. In 2002, he walked 3,349 miles across America with his dog Cosmo (the journey lasted 154 days), and was recently awarded a National Geographic Expedition Council Grant to hitchhike across Siberia.,“My success is not measured in money. I have no financial security, I have no savings account. I measure my success by asking myself if I’m telling a story that the world needs to hear, if I am educating people.” — Aaron Huey
Stefan,Wolff,The path to ending ethnic conflicts,Ethnic conflicts scholar, stefanwolff.com,,German political scientist Stefan Wolff is professor of international security at the University of Birmingham, England, and one of the world's leading experts on ethnic conflicts. He consults with governments and international organizations on issues such as the development and stability of post-conflict areas, the institutional design of solutions for self-determination conflicts, and ethnopolitics and minority questions. Bridging the divide between academia and policy-making, he has been involved in various phases of conflict settlement processes in Sudan, Moldova, Sri Lanka and Kosovo. He has also worked on a wide range of conflicts in places such as Northern Ireland, the Balkans, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, the Middle East and Asia. He is currently advising on the settlement of the status of Kirkuk, Iraq, and Transnistria, Moldova. He's written a dozen books, including Ethnic Conflict A Global Perspective, the first major treatment of the subject aimed at a broad general audience. He's the founding editor of Ethnopolitics, a quarterly, peer-reviewed journal dedicated to the study of ethnic conflicts and their management around the globe.,“Dr. Wolff is thorough, analytical yet practical and humane in his discussion of ethnic conflicts.” — ChicagoDiva, Amazon.com review of Ethnic Conflict
Emily,Pilloton,Teaching design for change,Humanitarian design activist,www.projecthdesign.org/,,As a young designer, Emily Pilloton was frustrated by the design world's scarcity of meaningful work. Even environmentally conscious design was not enough. At graduate school, people were starting to talk more about sustainability, but I felt it lacked a human factor, she said. Can we really call $5,000 bamboo coffee tables sustainable? Convinced of the power of design to change the world, at age 26 Pilloton founded Project H to help develop effective design solutions for people who need it most.,Her book Design Revolution features products like the Hippo Water Roller, a rolling barrel with handle that eases water transport, AdSpecs, adjustable liquid-filled eyeglasses, and Learning Landscapes, low-cost playgrounds that mesh math skills and physical activity.
Andrew,Bird,A one-man orchestra of the imagination,Musician, AndrewBird.net,,Andrew Bird began to play the violin at age 4, learning to play Bach and Mozart by ear as if they were folk tunes. Though raised on classical repertoire, he still has little use for the written note and spins melody and words out of his cumulative experience, mixing elements of many genres without confining itself to any one in particular. While his early work with his band Bowl of Fire was influenced by pre-war jazz and showcased his violin skills, his sound began to evolve in an indie-folk direction after he went solo. But indie-folk -- or any single genre -- is just a backbone for a swirl of loops, samples and gorgeously rich instrumentation underpinning lyrics of mysterious import. In 2002, Bird flew his Chicago coop for rural Illinois to live the rural life (yes, he had chickens) and set up his studio in a converted barn. This new environment inspired his 2003 solo album, Weather Systems, which has a surreal quality and poetic, thought-provoking lyrics. His sound progressed further with his 2005 album, The Mysterious Production of Eggs, which used multitrack recorders and loop pedals to layer samples, and featured more guitar, whistling and glockenspiel. Bird released his fifth solo album, Noble Beast, in early 2009 to acclaim, he's now working on a film score and an art installation.,“The violin is just the easiest way I have to express what's in my head. I'll just fully, unconsciously do whatever it takes to make that sound happen.” — Andrew Bird
Gero,Miesenboeck,Re-engineering the brain,Optogeneticist,www.cncb.ox.ac.uk/team/group.../miesenboeck/,,Gero Miesenboeck is pioneering the field of optogenetics genetically modifying nerve cells to respond to light. By flashing light at a modified neuron in a living nervous system, Miesenboeck and his collaborators can mimic a brain impulse -- and then study what happens next. Optogenetics will allow ever more precise experiments on living brains, allowing us to gather better evidence on how electrical impulses on tissue translate into actual behavior and thoughts.,In one experiment, done at Yale, he and his team engineered fruit flies to be light-sensitive in the neural area responsible for escape response. Then the flies were beheaded, fruit flies can live for a day without their heads, but they don't move. When the modified cells were flashed with light, though, the headless flies flew. Miesenboeck had successfully simulated an order from a brain that wasn't even there anymore.
Greg,Stone,Saving the ocean one island at a time,Oceanographer,gregstone.com/,,Greg Stone began his career as an ocean scientist, pioneering research in Antarctica on marine mammals and ice ecology where he mastered the art of diving into icebergs. Today he is well-known for his leadership in the effort to create the world’s second-largest marine protected area (MPA), around the Phoenix Islands in Kiribati.,Working with the government of Kiribati, Stone helped establish the MPA using market-based tools to conserve ocean biodiversity, in order to encourage continued local economic development rather than destruction of local communities livelihoods. Stone is the Chief Scientist for Oceans at Conservation International and a prolific author and speaker on the state of the marine environment and how policy can make change.
David,Bismark,E-voting without fraud,Voting system designer,evoting.bismark.se/,,One of the main objections to e-voting is that it's difficult for each voter to know that her vote was recorded accurately and counted correctly, while she remains anonymous. In the system designed by David Bismark and his colleagues, each voter gets a takeaway slip that serves as a record of the vote, and allows elections to be independently verified.,Apart from his work on voting systems, Bismark runs Recito Förlag, a publishing company in Sweden.
Tom,Chatfield,7 ways games reward the brain,Gaming theorist, tomchatfield.net,,It can be difficult to wrap one's mind around the size and the reach of modern video- and online-game culture. But gaming is not only outstripping more-traditional media in revenue (it overtook music in 2008), it's become a powerful lens to re-examine our culture at large. Tom Chatfield, a longtime gamer, is the arts and books editor at the UK current-affairs magazine Prospect . In his book Fun Inc. , he argues that games, with their immersive quests and deeply satisfying (and carefully designed) virtual rewards, are a great place to test new approaches to real-world systems that need a reboot.,More than a game journalist, Chatfield is a game theorist, looking at neurological research on how games engage our pleasure centers -- and then looking at a world where millions of videogame-veteran Generation Z'ers are entering the workforce and the voters' rolls. They're good with complex rule sets, they're used to forming ad hoc groups to reach a goal, and they love to tweak and mod existing systems. What if society harnessed that energy to redefine learning? Or voting? Understanding the psychology of the videogame reward schedule, Chatfield believes, is not only important for understanding the world of our children -- it's a stepping stone to improving our world right now.
Miwa,Matreyek,Glorious visions in animation and performance,Multimedia artist,www.semihemisphere.com/,,Miwa Matreyek's work blurs the line between real and unreal. In live works that integrate animation, performance, and video installation, she explores how animation changes when it is combined with body and space (and vice versa). In her video projects, animation takes on a more physical and present quality, while body and space take on a more fantastical quality.,On one hand, Matreyek's performance can be viewed as a cinematic experience taking place on a screen. On the other hand, what is seen on the screen is a collapsed product of multiple layers of animation, objects and body. Her work exists in a juxtaposition of illusion and nonillusion. Matreyek is also a founding member of the performance media group Cloud Eye Control, which makes theatrical productions with cleverly integrated animation projections.
Shimon,Steinberg,Natural pest control ... using bugs!,Entomologist,www.biobee.com/,,Shimon Steinberg is chief scientist at Bio-Bee, a world leader in mass production of the world's best natural, biological control agents bugs . (Beneficial bugs are replacing the use of chemical sprays in greenhouse vegetables and open field crops, producing pesticide-free food and eliminating hazardous exposure of millions of workers in third world countries.) These insects are shipped worldwide, where they go to work protecting thousands of hectares of greenhouses and open fields, in vegetables, field crops, fruit trees, ornamental plants and more.,“My dream is to narrow the gap even more by finding more robust and reliable good bugs we can mass produce or conserve in the field, as well as create more public demand for natural pest control and increase awareness among growers.” — Shimon Steinberg, Israel 21c
Barton,Seaver,Sustainable seafood? Let's get smart,Chef, BartonSeaver.org,,Barton Seaver has been at the helm of some of Washington, DC’s most acclaimed restaurants. He brought the idea of sustainable seafood to DC at Hook restaurant in Georgetown. After Hook, he opened Blue Ridge restaurant, where he was named as Esquire’s 2009 Chef of the Year.,His focus now is on larger issues of ocean sustainability as it relates to eating. He was recently named a Fellow with the Blue Ocean Institute, to help link the environmental community with real-life, delicious applications of an eco-friendly ethic. He works with the Ocean Now program at the National Geographic Society to influence the practices of large corporations and consumers alike toward a more responsible and sustainable sourcing ethic. Barton is an appointed member of the Mayor's Council on Nutrition in Washington, DC, where he is helping to craft a wellness policy for District residents.
Joseph,Nye,Global power shifts,Diplomat,joenye.com/,,From the window of his living room, Joseph Nye looks out on the battle green in Lexington, Massachusetts. There, just before dawn in April 1775, American minutemen and British regulars squared off, firing the first shots of the American Revolution. It's a perfect locale for Nye, whose ideas on how the struggle for power shapes the lives of nations are required reading for diplomats worldwide.,His views on the blending of hard and soft power into what he calls smart power have relevance in the day of non-state political forces (like Al-Qaeda). Nye has done much writing on how the age-old diplomatic methodologies of hard power (military force and economic payments) and soft power (persuasion and attraction) have fused into smart power and a cogent and usable diplomacy. It's the subject of his newest work, The Future of Power in the 21st Century , which provides a pragmatic roadmap for a country's foreign policy to deal with the challenges of a global information age.
R.A.,Mashelkar,Breakthrough designs for ultra-low-cost products,Scientist, innovator, research-alliance.net,,R.A. Mashelkar holds a long list of directorships, degrees and awards, all focused on advancing science and inclusive innovation in india. He's the president of the Global Research Alliance. While promoting and leading research agencies, he also has spearheaded efforts to protect traditional knowledge and expand intellectual property rights.,Known for his pioneering scientific contributions in polymer science, he is now propagating the principles of gandhian engineering, a system of development aligned with sustainability principles to create more useful goods and services for more people using fewer resources.
David,Byrne,,(Nothing But) Flowers with string quartet,Electronic music pioneer,davidbyrne.com/,,Perhaps best known for blinding us with science, TED Music Director Thomas Dolby has always blurred the lines between composition and invention . As a London teenager, Tom Robertson was fascinated with the convergence of music and technology. His experiments with an assortment of keyboards, synthesizers and cassette players led his friends to dub him “Dolby.” That same fascination later drove him to become an electronic musician and multimedia artist whose groundbreaking work fused music with computer technology and video . Two decades, several film scores, five Grammy nominations and countless live-layered sound loops later, it's clear Dolby's innovations have changed the sound of popular music. In the 1990s, Dolby re-created himself as a digital-musical entrepreneur, founding Beatnik, which developed the polyphonic ringtone software used in more than half a billion cell phones. Now back to touring and recording (after a 15-year hiatus), he's using seriously retro technology -- '40s-era oscilloscopes and Royal Navy field-test equipment -- to control his modern synthesizers, in shows that are at once nostalgic and cutting edge. And he continues his tenure as TED's Music Director , leading the eclectic characters of the TED House Band.,“Dolby enjoys the enviable position of not having to make music for a living, and that allows him to give serious consideration to what's important to him about being a pop artist.” — San Francisco Chronicle
Patrick,Chappatte,The power of cartoons,Editorial cartoonist,www.globecartoon.com/,,Patrick Chappatte is a global soul. Born in Pakistan to a Lebanese mother and a Swiss father, raised in Singapore, he has lived in New York and lives now in Geneva, Switzerland. Perhaps this explains his way of looking at world events, applying the unfettered perspective of humor to the tragic, the farcical and the absurd.,His simple line delivers pointed jokes. He draws for The International Herald Tribune (in English) and for the Swiss newspapers Le Temps (in French) and NZZ am Sonntag (in German), and in all three languages the subtle insightfulness of his cartoons consistently robs you of a laugh, or more.
Dianna,Cohen,Tough truths about plastic pollution,Artist and activist,www.diannacohen.com/,,Dianna Cohen is the co-founder of the Plastic Pollution Coalition , a group that addresses the pervasive problem of plastic pollution. She was inspired to co-found the group by her work as an artist -- because her chosen material is the ubiquitous plastic bag. She writes Having worked with the plastic bag as my primary material for the past fifteen years, all of the obvious references to recycling, first-world culture, class, high and low art give way to an almost formal process which reflects the unique flexibility of the medium.,With the Plastic Pollution Coalition, she helps to raise awareness of ocean waste -- the majority of which is nondegradable plastic -- and everyday strategies to cut down the amount of plastic we use and throw away.
Heribert,Watzke,The brain in your gut,Food scientist, research.nestle.com,,Heribert Watzke set up the department of food material science at Nestlé in Switzerland, pulling together many disciplines, including chemistry, nutrition and neuroscience, in pursuit of ever better foods. Watzke's background is in chemistry -- in the mid-'80s, he was part of a groundbreaking team at Syracuse working on splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen to create alternative energy -- before moving to materials science.,At Nestlé's lab, Watzke focuses on the most basic form of human energy the chemistry of food. Research on food has previously focused on its sensory qualities -- taste, aroma, texture. But there is much more to know. How does food's biological structure determine its quality, its digestibility, its nutritional qualities? What's the science of turning a biological structure (for instance, a kernel of grain) into something humans can make into pure energy (for instance, a slice of bread)? His team has been looking recently at the impact of food structure on fat digestion, in support of the fight against obesity. How much fat is needed to feel full? And how can we most effectively communicate with the 100 million neurons in our gut?
Jessica,Jackley,Poverty, money — and love,Microlender, Kiva.org,,Seven years ago, Jessica Jackley heard a speech by Grameen Bank founder Muhammad Yunus, an economist from Bangladesh who had developed the idea of microcredit loans offered to entrepreneurs too poor to qualify for traditional bank loans. She says, I was so completely blown away by the idea that I quit my job, dropped everything and moved to East Africa to help. In late 2005 she co-founded Kiva.org with Matt Flannery.,Kiva uses a peer-to-peer model in which lenders sort through profiles of potential borrowers -- be they a farmer in Cambodia, a pharmacist in Sierra Leone, or a shopkeeper in Mongolia -- and make loans to those they find most appealing. The minimum loan is $25, and the interest rate is 0%. The repayment rate for loans is more than 98%, Jackley says, and since the group was founded almost 700,000 people have pledged $128 million in loans to more than 325,000 people. Jackley's latest project is ProFounder, a new platform that helps small businesses in the United States access startup funding through community investing.
Joel,Burns,A message to gay teens It gets better,City councilman,joelburns.com/,,As a city councilman for Fort Worth, Texas, Joel Burns serves on a number of local boards and commissions and works with neighborhood and professional groups to preserve and protect Fort Worth. He brings community leaders, neighborhood associations and developers to the same table to work together. Burns' agenda includes a plan for bringing light rail and commuter rail to the Fort Worth area.,In October of 2010, video of his courageous message to the targets of teen bullying went viral on the web.
Ze,Frank,My web playroom,Humorist, web artist,zefrank.com,,Ever since his How to Dance Properly viral video -- born as a party invite for 17 friends -- hit the Web in 2001, Ze Frank has been making people giggle, guffaw and gasp out loud whilst procrastinating at work. He defines, in many ways, the genre of online comedy, and continues to innovate madly on the form.,In 2006 he launched a year-long daily video blog called The Show with Ze Frank , which Slate.com called the best sustained comedy run in the history of the Web. His rapid-fire delivery and absurd explorations in audience participation (like Earth Sandwich) has influenced a generation of digital native YouTubers. Perhap his most brilliant move calling on fans to write the show for him. Using collaborative tools, online viewers collectively put words in his mouth (and props in his lap), he faithfully performed this wiki-comedy each week for his Fabuloso Friday show.
Natalie,Jeremijenko,The art of the eco-mindshift,Artist and engineer,www.nataliejeremijenko.com/,,Bridging the technical and art worlds, Natalie Jeremijenko creates socially conscious experiences that make change, both directly and indirectly. As director of the xDesign Environmental Health Clinic at NYU, she helps prescribe creative health solutions for the environment that are carried out by enthusiastic volunteers. As a professor in NYU’s Visual Art Department, she creates and supervises real-life projects for her students like HowStuffIsMade (a website that details how everyday objects are created) and Feral Robots (packs of robot dogs that have been hacked to monitor pollution or even act as breathalyzers). Her individual work has been exhibited in the MASS MoCA, the Whitney Museum, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and she is part of an artists' collective called the Bureau of Inverse Technology. Past projects include the Despondency Index -- a motion detector camera was installed on San Francisco’s Bay Bridge to record suicides, which were then graphed in relation to stock market data. Jeremijenko was named as a 1999 Rockefeller Fellow, one of the 40 most influential designers by I.D. Magazine and one of the Top 100 Young Innovators by MIT Technology Review . She was included in both the 2006 Whitney Biennial of American Art and the Cooper Hewitt Smithsonian Design Triennial 2006-7.,Read a profile of Jeremijenko in the New York Times >>
Peter,Haas,Haiti's disaster of engineering,Building activist, AIDG.org,,In 2005, Peter Haas co-founded AIDG -- the Appropriate Infrastructure Development Group -- an organization helping individuals and communities get affordable and environmentally sound access to electricity, sanitation and clean water through a combination of business incubation, education, and outreach. (Also on the board TED Best-of-the-Web star Cat Laine .) Since co-founding AIDG, Haas has become an active voice for poverty issues, speaking at the World Bank, Harvard, MIT and other forums on technology, entrepreneurship and SME finance. He was named a TEDGlobal Fellow in 2009 and is now part of the three-year TED Senior Fellows program.,Before founding AIDG, Haas worked both in the information technology field and on an organic farm and horse ranch doing infrastructure improvement work. He tinkers in water systems, electrical systems, electronic systems, masonry, plumbing, biogas, irrigation, welding, metal casting and sustainable building.
Melinda,Gates,What nonprofits can learn from Coca-Cola,Philanthropist,www.gatesfoundation.org,,The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation works to help all people lead healthy, productive lives. As co-chair, Melinda French Gates helps shape and approve strategies, review results, advocate for foundation issues and set the overall direction. In developing countries, the foundation focuses on improving people's health with vaccines and other life-saving tools and giving them a chance to lift themselves out of hunger and extreme poverty. In the United States, it seeks to dramatically improve education so that all young people have the opportunity to reach their full potential. Based in Seattle, Washington, the foundation is led by CEO Jeff Raikes and co-chair William H. Gates Sr., under the direction of Bill Gates, Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett.,In recent years, Melinda French Gates has become a vocal advocate for access to contraception, advancing the idea that empowering women to decide whether and when to have children can have transformational effects on societies. In 2012, Gates spearheaded the London Summit on Family Planning, with the goal of delivering contraceptives to 120 million women in developing countries by 2020. When asked why she got involved in this issue, Gates said, We knew that 210 million women were saying they wanted access to the contraceptives we have here in the United States and we weren't providing them because of political controversy in our country. To me, that was just a crime. I kept looking around trying to find the person to get this back on the global stage. I realized I just had to do it.
Stefano,Mancuso,The roots of plant intelligence,Plant neurobiologist, linv.org,,Does the Boston fern you're dutifully misting each morning appreciate your care? Or can the spreading oak in your local park take umbrage at the kids climbing its knotted branches? Not likely, says Italian researcher Stefano Mancuso, but that doesn't mean that these same living organisms aren't capable of incredibly sophisticated and dynamic forms of awareness and communication.,From his laboratory near Florence, Mancuso and his team explore how plants communicate, or signal, with each other, using a complex internal analysis system to find nutrients, spread their species and even defend themselves against predators. Their research continues to transform our view of plants from simple organisms to complex ecological structures and communities that can gather, process and -- most incredibly -- share important information.
Stacey,Kramer,The best gift I ever survived,Brand strategist,www.brandplay.com/team/,,Co-founder of Brandplay, a brand strategy firm, Stacey Kramer also founded Word for Word, a naming and branding consultancy serving national and global companies -- from big, recognizable names to next year's newsmaking startups.,In 2009, Kramer found herself confronting a terrifying diagnosis a CAT scan revealed she had a brain tumor -- the size of a golf ball. She told her remarkable, personal story at TED2010.
Hans,Rosling,The good news of the decade?,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Barbara,Block,Tagging tuna in the deep ocean,Marine biologist, TOPP.org,,Barbara Block takes a multidisciplinary approach to studying how large pelagic fish live and travel in the open ocean. Using novel electronic tags, Block and her team track large predators — tunas, billfish and sharks — on their ocean journeys. She also studies how and why muscle makes heat at a molecular level in fish. Working out of Stanford 's Hopkins Marine Station, Block and her colleagues run the Tuna Research and Conservation Center, a member of the Tagging of Pacific Predators (TOPP) program. Combining tracking data with physiological and genetic analyses, Block (a MacArthur genius grant winner) is developing population and ecological models to help us understand these fishes' roles in the ocean ecosystem — and perhaps learn to better manage these important food fish.,
Tim,Jackson,An economic reality check,Economist, earthscan.co.uk,,Tim Jackson currently serves as the economics commissioner on the UK government's Sustainable Development Commission and is director of RESOLVE -- the Research group on Lifestyles, Values and Environment. After five years as Senior Researcher at the Stockholm Environment Institute, he bcame the Professor of Sustainable Development at University of Surrey, and was the first person to hold that title at a UK university. He founded RESOLVE in May 2006 as an nter-disciplinary collaborationacross four areas -- CES, psychology, sociology and economics -- aiming to develop an understanding of the links between lifestyle, societal values and the environment.,He is also the author of the influential book Propserity Without Growth . He serves as chair to the 'New Energy Solutions' Advisory Board for Danish investment company BankInvest and is associate researcher on a Templeton Foundation project on 'The Pursuit of Happiness.' Tim is also an award-winning playwright, and his environmental drama The Cry of the Bittern won a Public Awareness of Science Drama Award in 1998. His most recent play, Variations , won the 2007 Grand Prix Marulic and is longlisted for the 2008 Sony Drama award.
Eben,Bayer,Are mushrooms the new plastic?,Green designer,ecovativedesign.com,,As co-founder of Ecovative , Eben Bayer co-invented MycoBond, a technology that uses a filamentous fungi to transform agricultural waste products into strong composite materials . Or, as CNN put it In non-scientific terms, they grind up seed husks and glue the small pieces together with mushroom root. Their products include packaging and styrofoam substitute and the now-in-development Greensulate rigid insulation board for builders. Both products require less energy to create than synthetics like foam, because they're quite literally grown. Equally compelling, at the end of their useful life, they can be home-composted or even used as garden mulch.,“There are three principles that should govern better materials. Firstly, they should be able to be created almost anywhere on the planet. Secondly, they should require considerably less energy to produce than current materials. Lastly, they should be able to be disposed of by nature's wonderful open-source recycling system.” — Eben Bayer,
Mechai,Viravaidya,How Mr. Condom made Thailand a better place,Public health expert,mechaifoundation.org/,,Mechai Viravaidya is the founder and chair of the Population and Community Development Association (PDA). He's a widely acclaimed leader in the fields of public health, education and community development.,Since 1974, Mr. Mechai has initiated community-based family planning services, innovative poverty reduction and rural education programs, large-scale rural development and environmental programs, as well as groundbreaking HIV/AIDS prevention activities throughout Southeast Asia.
Inge,Missmahl,Bringing peace to the minds of Afghanistan,Analytical psychologist,ipsocontext.org/about-us/team/,,From dancer to humanitarian by way of analytical psychology, Inge Missmahl's unusual life trajectory led her to Kabul in 2004, where she saw that more than 60 percent of the population were suffering from depressive symptoms and traumatic experiences -- hardly surprising in a country that had lived with ongoing violence, poverty, and insecurity for 30 years. In response, Missmahl founded the psychosocial Project Kabul for Caritas Germany, a project that trained Afghan men and women to offer psychosocial counseling in 15 centers throughout the city.,The project has offered free treatment to 12,000 clients to date, helping to restore self-determination and well-being while breaking down ingrained gender barriers and social stigma of mental illness . Psychosocial counseling is now integrated in the Afghan health system thanks to Missmahl's efforts. She now works on behalf of the European Union as Technical Advisor for Mental Health for the Afghan government, and is founder of International Psychosocial Organisation (IPSO), a network of experts dedicated to developing and implementing psychosocial programs in various contexts.
Sebastian,Seung,I am my connectome,Computational neuroscientist,seunglab.org/,,In the brain, neurons are connected into a complex network. Sebastian Seung and his lab at MIT are inventing technologies for identifying and describing the connectome, the totality of connections between the brain's neurons -- think of it as the wiring diagram of the brain. We possess our entire genome at birth, but things like memories are not stored in the genome, they are acquired through life and accumulated in the brain. Seung's hypothesis is that we are our connectome, that the connections among neurons is where memories and experiences get stored.,Seung and his collaborators, including Winfried Denk at the Max Planck Institute and Jeff Lichtman at Harvard University, are working on a plan to thin-slice a brain (probably starting with a mouse brain) and trace, from slice to slice, each neural pathway, exposing the wiring diagram of the brain and creating a powerful new way to visualize the workings of the mind. They're not the first to attempt something like this -- Sydney Brenner won a Nobel for mapping all the 7,000 connections in the nervous system of a tiny worm, C. elegans. But that took his team a dozen years, and the worm only had 302 nerve cells. One of Seung's breakthroughs is in using advanced imagining and AI to handle the crushing amount of data that a mouse brain will yield and turn it into richly visual maps that show the passageways of thought and sensation.
Gary,Wolf,The quantified self,Journalist,garywolf.com/,,Gary Wolf is a contributing editor at Wired magazine, where he writes regularly about the culture of science and technology (as well as many other topics). He is also the co-founder, with Wired colleague Kevin Kelly, of The Quantified Self, a blog about selfknowledge through numbers. He was an early editor at Hotwired / Wired Digital, and helped push the technical and editorial limits of the early web. His books include Dumb Money Adventures of a Day Trader (with Joey Anuff) and Wired A Romance , and he’s working on a book called (for now) The Quantified Self .,“We usually associate self-knowledge not with numbers but with words -- a kind of inner voice of consciousness and conscience. Supplementing that with quantitative tools is one of the most interesting trends emerging in our culture.” — Gary Wolf in IFTF Health Horizons Report
Tim,Birkhead,The early birdwatchers,Ornithologist,https//www.shef.ac.uk/aps/staff-and.../birkhead,,Tim Birkhead is a professor of behavior and evolution at the University of Sheffield. His research on promiscuity and sperm competition in birds helped to re-shape current understanding of bird mating systems. His undergraduate teaching includes courses in animal behavior and the history and philosophy of science. Since 1972 Birkhead has maintained a long-term study of guillemots on Skomer Island, Wales. Tim has been president of the International Society for Behavioural Ecology and currently serves on the management committee of the Darwin Correspondence Project. Birkhead has written for New Scientist , BBC Wildlife , Natural History magazine and The Independent and has a regular column in the Times Higher Education . His most recent book The Wisdom of Birds is an illustrated account of how we know what we know about birds.,“The evolving narratives attaching to certain birds, which Birkhead has so elegantly explored, demonstrate how important they have been to our understanding of natural science.” — The Guardian
Julian,Treasure,Shh! Sound health in 8 steps,Sound consultant,JulianTreasure.com,,Julian Treasure is the chair of the Sound Agency , a firm that advises worldwide businesses -- offices, retailers, hotels -- on how to use sound. He asks us to pay attention to the sounds that surround us . How do they make us feel productive, stressed, energized, acquisitive?,Treasure is the author of the book Sound Business and keeps a blog by the same name that ruminates on aural matters (and offers a nice day-by-day writeup of TEDGlobal 2009). In the early 1980s, Treasure was the drummer for the Fall-influenced band Transmitters .
Fabian,Hemmert,The shape-shifting future of the mobile phone,Designer,www.fabianhemmert.com/,,Fabian Hemmert thinks hard about communicating information in non-visual ways -- through weight, shape, touch, movement. His recent explorations into shape-shifting cell phones are part of a long career of thinking beyond the touchscreen. Along with his shape-shifting mobile phones, his newest work explores haptic feedback in pens . He's a design researcher at Deutsche Telekom Laboratories and is working on his PhD in Berlin.,His master's thesis is an elegant exploration of the non-visual -- exploring the surprising effects of closing one's eyes during a movie or a first-person shooter game.
Annie,Lennox,Why I am an HIV/AIDS activist,Activist, singer-songwriter, AnnieLennox.com,,After decades of global fame as part of Eurythmics and as a solo artist, Annie Lennox was moved by Nelson Mandela's call to stop the HIV/AIDS pandemic in South Africa, where it disproportionately affects women and children. She founded the SING campaign in 2007 to raise both awareness and money. This is an illness that has a lot of stigma, Lennox says on her video blog. What we need to do is normalize HIV.,Drawing on her talents, she combines music and film to put a human face on the crisis and emotionally connect people to the cause. South Africa has a tradition of activist songs and singing, inspired by this, in spring 2007 Lennox invited 23 female artists to record the benefit single Sing. The record incorporates the South African activist song Jikelele, which means global treatment. So far, sales of Sing have raised 100,000 pounds, while other appearances since then have multiplied that sum. SING's money goes to support efforts such as the Treatment Action Campaign (TAC), which works to fight mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Lennox is active in many other causes, both personal and political, in 2008 she was awarded the Services to Humanity Award by the British Red Cross.
Mitchell,Besser,Mothers helping mothers fight HIV,HIV/AIDS fighter, mothers2mothers.com,,In the developed world, daily care and drugs have turned HIV/AIDS into a manageable condition, and mothers with HIV rarely, anymore, pass it along to their babies. (Take a minute to be grateful for that.) But in developing nations where access to healthcare is difficult, drugs and day-to-day care and support are harder to come by, and rates of maternal transmission of HIV are much higher. Doctor Mitchell Besser works in Cape Town, South Africa, and in 2001, he began a program called mothers2mothers that aims to close this gap, by drawing on the power of community support.,Mothers2mothers employs HIV-positive moms themselves to complement the work of doctors and nurses. After a two-month training, mentor mothers work with other moms with HIV to help them understand how to keep from transmitting HIV to their babies. Equally important, the members of mothers2mothers connect at an emotional level with other moms, offering the support of true peers, helping to reduce the social stigma around HIV diagnosis, and helping each mom stick to her own treatment regiment so she can watch her baby grow. From its beginnings in 2001, mothers2mothers now operates in 600 clinics in seven countries, 1,600 mentor mothers touch an estimated 200,000 patients a month -- accounting for 20 per cent of the HIV-positive patients in Africa.
Steven,Johnson,Where good ideas come from,Writer,www.stevenberlinjohnson.com/,,A dynamic writer and speaker, Johnson crafts captivating theories that draw on a dizzying array of disciplines, without ever leaving his audience behind. Author Kurt Anderson described Johnson's book Emergence as thoughtful and lucid and charming and staggeringly smart. The same could be said for Johnson himself. His big-brained, multi-disciplinary theories make him one of his generation's more intriguing thinkers. His books take the reader on a journey -- following the twists and turns his own mind makes as he connects seemingly disparate ideas ants and cities, interface design and Victorian novels.,Johnson's breakout 2005 title, Everything Bad Is Good for You , took the provocative stance that our fear and loathing of popular culture is misplaced, video games and TV shows, he argues, are actually making us smarter. His appearances on The Daily Show and Charlie Rose cemented his reputation as a cogent thinker who could also pull more than his share of laughs. His most recent work, The Ghost Map , goes in another direction entirely It tells the story of a cholera outbreak in 1854 London, from the perspective of the city residents, the doctors chasing the disease, and the pathogen itself. The book shows how the epidemic brought about profound changes in science, cities and modern society. His upcoming work, Where Good Ideas Come From The Natural History of Innovation , tells the fascinating stories of great ideas and great thinkers across disciplines.
Christien,Meindertsma,How pig parts make the world turn,Artist,www.christienmeindertsma.com,,Dutch artist Christien Meindertsma explores raw materials in thoughtful ways, making simple books and products that lay bare complex and once-hidden processes . For her first book, Checked Baggage , she purchased a container filled with a week's worth of objects confiscated at security checkpoints at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport after 9/11. She meticulously categorized all 3,267 items and photographed them on a white seamless background. Her second book, PIG 05049 , documents the astounding array of products that different parts of a pig named 05049 could support -- revealing the lines that link raw materials with producers, products and consumers that have become so invisible in an increasingly globalized world. PIG 05049 was acquired by New York's Museum of Modern Art this winter.,With her product designs, Meindertsma plays with ancient, natural materials and processes. In a project for the Nature Conservancy last year, she made the sensuous Idaho rug, knitted from inch-thick felted wool yarn from the fleece of sheep at Lava Lake Ranch in Idaho. Each panel of the massive rug was knitted (on giant wooden needles) from the fleece of one sheep, using a different stitch per animal to display the personalities that make up a flock.
Caroline,Phillips,Hurdy-gurdy for beginners,Musician,www.carolinephillips.net/home.html,,Californian-born, French-resident entrepreneur and musician Caroline Phillips is one half of Basque music duo Bidaia , alongside Mixel Ducau. Her searching, Moroccan- and East Indian-inflected vocals are accompanied by the distinctive, folky sounds of the hurdy-gurdy , an unfamiliar and unusual string instrument operated with a crank-turned wheel. Throughout her years as a professional musician, Phillips has regularly performed in jazz clubs and toured with her one-woman show in the Caribbean and North Africa.,“The roots are deep and the instruments acoustic, but make no mistake this is a contemporary band with energy, drive and wide-ranging curiosity. Bidaia translates as 'voyage' and it definitely offers a unique travel experience.” — Dirty Linen
Nicholas,Christakis,How social networks predict epidemics,Physician, social scientist,nicholaschristakis.net,,People aren't merely social animals in the usual sense, for we don't just live in groups. We live in networks -- and we have done so ever since we emerged from the African savannah. Via intricately branching paths tracing out cascading family connections, friendship ties, and work relationships, we are interconnected to hundreds or even thousands of specific people, most of whom we do not know. We affect them and they affect us.,Nicholas Christakis' work examines the biological, psychological, sociological, and mathematical rules that govern how we form these social networks, and the rules that govern how they shape our lives. His work shows how phenomena as diverse as obesity, smoking, emotions, ideas, germs, and altruism can spread through our social ties, and how genes can partially underlie our creation of social ties to begin with. His work also sheds light on how we might take advantage of an understanding of social networks to make the world a better place.
Jessa,Gamble,Our natural sleep cycle is nothing like what we do now,Writer,www.lastwordonnothing.com/about-us/jessa-gamble/,,Jessa Gamble is an award-winning writer from Oxford, who lives in the Canadian Subarctic. Now that humanity has spread right to the Earth's poles and adopted a 24-hour business day, Gamble argues that our internal clocks struggle against our urban schedules. Her work documents the rituals surrounding daily rhythms, which along with local languages and beliefs are losing their rich global diversity and succumbing to a kind of circadian imperialism.,A dynamic new voice in popular science, Gamble was awarded a 2007 Science in Society journalism award from the Canadian Science Writers Association for her first-person account of daily life at the Eureka High Arctic Weather Station. She is the author of Siesta and The Midnight Sun How We Measure and Experience Time .
Chris,Anderson,How web video powers global innovation,TED Curator,anderson.tv/,,TED's Chris Anderson was born in a remote village in Pakistan, and spent his early years in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan, where his father worked as a missionary eye surgeon. He graduated from Oxford University with a degree in philosophy , and then trained as a journalist. After several years at newspapers and radio stations, he got hooked on the strange new home computers which had just started appearing. He became an editor at one of the UK's early computer magazines, and a year later, in 1985, formed a tiny start-up to launch his own magazine. Its unlikely success led to more launches, and his company Future Publishing grew rapidly under the moniker media with passion. Anderson expanded to the United States in 1994, where he built Imagine Media, publisher of Business 2.0 magazine, and creator of the popular games website IGN . The combined companies eventually spawned more than 100 monthly magazines, employing 2,000 people. And they allowed Anderson to create a private nonprofit foundation, the Sapling Foundation, which hoped to find new ways of tackling tough global issues by leveraging media, technology, entrepreneurship, and most of all, ideas . Sapling acquired the TED Conference in 2001, and Anderson then left his businesses to focus on growing TED. (He is not to be confused with his super-smart friend, the Chris Anderson who edits WIRED magazine and wrote The Long Tail .),“You're part of the crowd that may be about to ignite the biggest learning cycle in human history.” — Chris Anderson, from TEDTalk on Crowd-Accelerated Innovation
Rob,Dunbar,Discovering ancient climates in oceans and ice,Oceanographer, biogeochemist,dunbar.stanford.edu/,,Rob Dunbar's research looks at the earth and ocean as an interconnected system over time. With his group at Stanford, he makes high-resolution studies of climate change over the past 50 to 12,000 years.,Where does 12,000-year-old climate data come from? It's locked in the skeletons of ancient corals from the tropics and the deep sea, and buried in sediments from lakes and other marine environments. His lab measures the chemical and isotopic makeup of these materials, and looks at how they've changed in response to changes in the solar and carbon cycles.
Seth,Godin,This is broken,Marketer and author,sethgodin.com,,Seth Godin may be the ultimate entrepreneur for the Information Age, Mary Kuntz wrote in Business Week nearly a decade ago.  Instead of widgets or car parts, he specializes in ideas -- usually, but not always, his own. In fact, he's as focused on spreading ideas as he is on the ideas themselves. After working as a software brand manager in the mid-1980s, Godin started Yoyodyne, one of the first Internet-based direct-marketing firms, with the notion that companies needed to rethink how they reached customers . His efforts caught the attention of Yahoo!, which bought the company in 1998 and kept Godin on as a vice president of permission marketing. Godin has produced several critically acclaimed and attention-grabbing books, including Permission Marketing, All Marketers Are Liars, and Purple Cow (which was distributed in a milk carton). In 2005, Godin founded Squidoo.com , a Web site where users can share links and information about an idea or topic important to them.,“[Godin] is a demigod on the Web, a best-selling author, highly sought-after lecturer, successful entrepreneur, respected pundit and high-profile blogger. He is uniquely respected for his understanding of the Internet.” — Forbes.comBen,Cameron,The true power of the performing arts,Arts administrator,www.bencameron.me/,,Ben Cameron is the Program Director, Arts, at the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation in New York, where he supervises a $13 million grants program aimed at the theatre, contemporary dance, jazz and presenting fields. Grants happen in three main areas commissioning and distribution of new works, building strong arts organizations, and supporting national arts organizations.,During 13 seasons, Cameron has been a panelist on the opera quiz during the Live from the Metropolitan radio broadcasts from New York. He has also served as a member of the Tony Awards Nominating Committee.
Carne,Ross,An independent diplomat,Diplomat,www.carneross.com/,,Carne Ross was a member of the British diplomat corps for a decade and a half -- until a crisis of faith in the system drove him to go freelance. With his nonprofit, Independent Diplomat , he and a team advise small and developing nations without a diplomatic corps, as well as unrecognized nations that would otherwise lack a voice in negotiations on their own futures. His group helped advise the Kosovars in their quest for recognition as a nation, and with Croatia on its application to join the EU. They're now working with Southern Sudan as it approaches a vote to separate (a vote that, on Sept. 8, 2010, US Secretary of State Clinton called  inevitable ).,As Ross said to Time magazine, when it profiled him in a 2008 story called Innovators/Peacemakers Our work is based on the belief that everybody has a right to some say in the resolution of their issues. He's the author of the 2007 book Independent Diplomat Dispatches from an Unaccountable Elite .
Alwar,Balasubramaniam,Art of substance and absence,Artist,talwargallery.com/new-york/,,Alwar Balasubramaniam's work aches to express the overlooked, the invisible, the inexpressible . Quiet white sculptural forms, hung on a wall, unlock philosophical questions as one watches the light pass over them. What is their form, and what is their shadow? What are those mysterious white hands reaching for, around the corner and through the wall?,Trained in painting and printmaking, Balasubramaniam has been experimenting with a range of materials (fiberglass, wax, gold) to create sculptural works that bring forth his ideas and his search process. His work is often very tactile, very physical, but it symbolizes an exploration of big questions what defines the self? what confines us? how do light and shadow shape our view of the world?
Sugata,Mitra,The child-driven education,Education researcher, sugatam.blogspot.com,,Educational researcher Dr. Sugata Mitra’s “ Hole in the Wall ” experiments have shown that, in the absence of supervision or formal teaching, children can teach themselves and each other, if they’re motivated by curiosity and peer interest. In 1999, Mitra and his colleagues dug a hole in a wall bordering an urban slum in New Delhi, installed an Internet-connected PC, and left it there (with a hidden camera filming the area). What they saw was kids from the slum playing around with the computer and in the process learning how to use it and how to go online, and then teaching each other. The Hole in the Wall project demonstrates that, even in the absence of any direct input from a teacher, an environment that stimulates curiosity can cause learning through self-instruction and peer-shared knowledge. Mitra, who's now a professor of educational technology at Newcastle University (UK) , calls it minimally invasive education.,At TED2013, Sugata Mitra made a bold TED Prize wish Help me build a place where children can explore and learn on their own -- and teach one another -- using resouces from the worldwide cloud.
Rachel,Sussman,The world's oldest living things,Artist, photographer,rachelsussman.com,,For the past five years, Rachel Sussman has traveled around the globe photographing organisms that have lived for more than 2,000 years . From 500,000-year-old actinobacteria in the Siberian permafrost a lone spruce standing on a mostly barren mountain in Sweden, her images capture both the robustness and fragility of life. While these organisms' longevity dwarfs even that of human civilization, they all depend on ecosystems in fine balance -- a balance thrown into question by human encroachment and climate change. Sussman's work has been exhibited throughout the United States and Europe in venues including the Museum of Natural History.,“The collection offers a rare perspective of life on Earth. Some of the organisms Sussman has captured look alien. Many were alive in the bronze age. Others were eking out an existence long before modern humans rose up and migrated out of Africa.” — The Guardian
Derek,Sivers,Keep your goals to yourself,Entrepreneur,https//sivers.org/,,Derek Sivers is best known as the founder of CD Baby. A professional musician since 1987, he started CD Baby by accident in 1998 when he was selling his own CD on his website, and friends asked if he could sell theirs, too. CD Baby was the largest seller of independent music on the web, with over $100M in sales for over 150,000 musician clients. In 2008, Sivers sold CD Baby to focus on his new ventures to benefit musicians , including his new company, MuckWork, where teams of efficient assistants help musicians do their uncreative dirty work.,“Derek Sivers is changing the way music is bought and sold. A musicians' savior. One of the last music-business folk heroes.” — Esquire
His,Holiness,The technology of the heart,Spiritual leader, kagyuoffice.org,,The name Karmapa means the one who carries out Buddha-activity, and for seventeen lifetimes, a karmapa has embodied the teachings of Buddha in tibet. The 17th Gyalwang Karmapa, Ogyen Trinley Dorje, was born a nomad in Tibet in 1985 and recognized by the Dalai Lama in 1992 as the 17th Karmapa. The young boy was brought to the Tsurphu monastery to live and study for his life as a spiritual teacher and activist.,At age 14, he made a daring flight from Tibet, and now works from a temporary camp in Dharamsala, near his friend the Dalai Lama. (After the Dalai Lama, he's seen as Tibetan Buddhism's second-highest-ranking spiritual leader, though the two men lead different schools within the faith.) In 2008, he made a long visit to the United States, where he spoke and taught at Buddhist centers around the country. And in 2009 he toured Europe, speaking about faith -- but also about protecting the environment.
Johan,Rockstrom,Let the environment guide our development,Sustainability expert, stockholmresilience.org,,Johan Rockström leads the Stockholm Resilience Centre, focusing on a new approach to sustainability the capacity to use change and crisis to spur renewal and innovative thinking. In 2009, working with an international team of scientists, he identified and quantified a set of nine planetary boundaries within which humanity can continue to develop and thrive for generations to come -- while crossing them could generate abrupt or irreversible environmental changes.,Since then, the boundaries research has spread among international organizations, governments, NGOs and companies and has been adopted as a new framework to guide the discussion about sustainable growth. It is currently debated as a core part of setting the criteria that will follow the UN's Millennium Development Goals. Rockström also chairs Future Earth, an initiative to advance integrated science for global sustainability.
Nic,Marks,The Happy Planet Index,Happiness researcher, happyplanetindex.org,,Nic Marks thinks quality of life is measurable, and that true contentment comes not from the accumulation of material wealth but from our connections with others, engagement with the world, and a sense of autonomy. This isn't just theory a pioneer in the field of well-being research, Marks creates statistical methods to measure happiness, analyzing and interpreting the evidence so that it can be applied to such policy fields as education, sustainable development, healthcare, and economics.,The founder of the Centre for Well-Being, an independent think tank at the New Economics Foundation (NEF), in London, Marks is particularly keen to promote a balance between sustainable development and quality of life. To investigate this, he devised the Happy Planet Index , a global index of human well-being and environmental impact. The results made headlines People in the world's wealthiest countries, who consume the most of the planet's resources, don't come out on top in terms of well-being. Which raises the question What purpose does unfettered economic growth serve?
Dan,Cobley,What physics taught me about marketing,Online marketing whiz,https//www.ted.com/speakers/dan_cobley,,“The fantastic thing about the web is that anyone with a computer and an Internet connection can tap into a global market from day one.” — Dan Cobley,
Lisa,Margonelli,The political chemistry of oil,Writer,lisamargonelli.com/,,Lisa Margonelli's work examines the promise and possibility of a post-oil world . She has studied California's opportunity to benefit from new technologies and policies, and is looking at the unexpected complications of alternative fuels and energy efficiency. Margonelli has been published in The Atlantic , New York Times online, Washington Post , Wired and other publications. Her book about the oil supply chain, Oil On the Brain Petroleum's Long Strange Trip to Your Tank , was recognized as one of the 25 Notable Books of 2007 by the American Library Association.,“Lisa Margonelli has a rare and precious talent. She has drawn a wonderfully readable portrait of the fascinating and surprisingly little-known human face of Big Oil.” — Simon Winchester
Jim,Toomey,Learning from Sherman the shark,Cartoonist,jimtoomey.com/bio.html,,For the past 13 years Jim Toomey has been creating the daily comic strip Sherman's Lagoon, which appears in over 150 newspapers in North America. Toomey's latest book of comics (his fifteenth) is Discover Your Inner Hermit Crab , and the strip has recently become a musical .,Sherman's Lagoon is a combination of Toomey’s two lifelong passions drawing and the sea. He’s been engaged in the former activity since he could hold a crayon, and his love affair with the sea dates back to his early childhood. The inspiration for the comic strip can be traced back to a family vacation in the Bahamas where he saw a real shark swimming in a remote lagoon. Toomey became a certified diver at the age of 12, and, as an adult, has logged dives all over the world, including Asia, Africa, the Mediterranean, Latin America, and extensively in the kelp forests of California
Jeremy,Rifkin,The empathic civilization,Writer, thinker,www.foet.org/,,Jeremy Rifkin is president of the Foundation on Economic Trends and the author of 17 bestselling books on the impact of scientific and technological changes on the economy, the workforce, society and the environment . His books have been translated into more than thirty languages and are used in thousands of universities, corporations and government agencies around the world. Rifkin has been an advisor to the European Union for the past decade. He has been a senior lecturer at the Wharton School’s Executive Education Program at the University of Pennsylvania, and his monthly column on global issues appears in many of the world's leading newspapers and magazines, including The Los Angeles Times and The Guardian .,“The Empathic Civilization is emerging. A younger generation is fast extending its empathic embrace beyond religious affiliations and national identification to include the whole of humanity and the vast project of life that envelops the Earth.” — Jeremy Rifkin
Lee,Hotz,Inside an Antarctic time machine,Journalist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/robert_lee_hotz,,Robert Lee Hotz is the science columnist for the Wall Street Journal, where he explores the world of new research and its impact on society. In his column, he ranges broadly across the research horizon, from climate change, cosmology and molecular medicine, to evolution, neuroeconomics and new insights into the human brain. Hotz was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in 1986 for his coverage of genetic engineering issues, and again in 2004 for his coverage of the space shuttle Columbia accident. Mr. Hotz shared in The Los Angeles Times ’ 1995 Pulitzer Prize for articles about the Northridge Earthquake.,Hotz is a director of the Alicia Patterson Foundation, which funds independent journalism projects around the world, and a distinguished writer in residence at New York University. He is the author of Designs on Life, Exploring the New Frontiers of Human Fertility, and a contributor to several books on research issues.
David,McCandless,The beauty of data visualization,Data journalist, InformationIsBeautiful.net,,David McCandless makes infographics -- simple, elegant ways to see information that might be too complex or too big, small, abstract or scattered to otherwise be grasped. In his new book, Information Is Beautiful (in the US, it's being called The Visual Miscellaneum ), McCandless and his cadre of info designers take a spin through the world of visualized data, from hard stats on politics and climate to daffy but no less important trends in pop music.,McCandless' genius is not so much in finding jazzy new ways to show data -- the actual graphics aren't the real innovation here -- as in finding fresh ways to combine datasets to let them ping and prod each other. Reporting the number of drug deaths in the UK every year is interesting, but mapping that data onto the number of drug deaths reported by the UK press, broken down by drug, is utterly fascinating (more deaths by marijuana were reported than in fact occurred, by a factor of 484%). McCandless contributes a monthly big-think graphic to the Guardian 's Data Blog, and makes viral graphics for his blog Information Is Beautiful.
Seth,Priebatsch,The game layer on top of the world,Entrepreneur,https//www.crunchbase.com/person/seth-priebatsch,,Two things you'll notice about Seth Priebatsch One, his infectious, get-you-out-of-your-chair enthusiasm. Two, the inventory of entrepreneurial feats he's managed to accumulate at a remarkably young age. The 21-year-old founded his first startup at age 12 , and by age 18, he'd founded another -- PostcardTech, which makes interactive marketing tours for CD-ROM. Now he's working on SCVNGR,  a massive experiment in building a mobile game together . Backed by Google Ventures, SCVNGR is part game, part game platform. Players play SCVNGR by going places, doing challenges and having fun -- outside of the office, beyond the screen, in the real world. Organizations use SCVNGR by building on the game layer by adding their own challenges to the places they care about.,“The company [SCVNGR] was founded with the idea that mobile games could blur a line between “digital interactivity and real-world interaction.” — The New York Times
Maz,Jobrani,Did you hear the one about the Iranian-American?,Comedian, MazJobrani.com,,Maz Jobrani is an actor and comedian who starred on the Axis of Evil Middle East Comedy Tour, a groundbreaking tour of the US and Middle Eastern countries, where it sold out 27 shows in Dubai, Beirut, Cairo, Kuwait and Amman. The Axis of Evil Comedy Central Special premiered in 2007 as, arguably, the first show on American TV with an all-Middle Eastern/American cast. In 2009 Jobrani performed in his first solo world tour, called Maz Jobrani Brown and Friendly, and is currently following up this tour with a second, titled Browner and Friendlier.,Jobrani's comedy pulls from his background as an Iran-born kid raised in Northern California. He pokes fun at cultural stereotypes of all kinds -- starting with the stereotype that Middle Eastern actors can only play a few kinds of roles in Hollywood. He's been working to develop rich characters in a variety of TV shows and films. His next project Jimmy Vestvood Amerikan Hero , described as a cross between a Middle Eastern Pink Panther and Bend It Like Beckham.
Jamil,Abu-Wardeh,The Axis of Evil Middle East Comedy Tour,Producer,www.webitcongress.com/en/webit/2012/jamil_abu-wardeh.html,,After fifteen years working in UK television, Jamil Abu-Wardeh moved to Dubai with a big idea to bring modern standup comedy to the Middle East. His grassroots efforts to build a standup scene in Dubai, and then across the region, led to the first standup comedy time slot in the programming of Showtime Arabia. And this led to a ground- and record-breaking tour of five Arab countries The Axis of Evil Middle East Comedy Tour. Lines around the block, performances for royalty -- the tour tapped into a shared desire to laugh.,Standup comedians on the tour avoid the three B's (blue material, beliefs and bolitics) but are free to poke fun everywhere else. One of Abu-Wardeh's stars, protegé Wonho Chung, is a Korean kid who speaks perfect Arabic and is wildly popular on YouTube in Saudi Arabia -- proving to Abu-Wardeh that lines between national groups can be broken down if you're just funny enough. The impresario is constantly creating content and chances for aspiring comics, and his work has helped touch off a new flowering of standup comedy in the region.
Peter,Molyneux,Meet Milo, the virtual boy,Game changer, Microsoft.com/games,,Game geeks have been buzzing about Project Natal for, seemingly, ever -- Microsoft's now-in-development gaming device that goes the Wii one better by allowing your whole body to become the joystick, using touchless, visual-recognition interface technology. What kind of game will be played on this immersive new equipment? Peter Molyneux is working on one that redefines the whole notion of game -- Milo.,Milo is a little boy (there's also to be a little girl, Kate) who quite simply acts like a little boy, learning your name, talking with you, going on walks around the lake. It's an immersive, slightly uncanny experience, as seen in the single year-old demo that's still blowing minds on YouTube. Molyneux himself is a game-industry legend who has created many titles. In 1997 he founded Lionhead Studios, makers of Fable, a role-playing game. Microsoft bought Lionhead in 2006, and will release the much-anticipated Fable III in the fall.
Diane,J.,The case for same-sex marriage,Senator,www.eecs.wsu.edu/~cook/,,Diane Savino began her career in public service as a caseworker for New York City’s Child Welfare Administration, providing assistance to abused and neglected children. An active member of her local labor union, she quickly rose through the ranks to become the Vice President for Political Action and Legislative Affairs. In 2004, she was elected to represent the 23rd Senatorial District, encompassing the North Shore of Staten Island and portions of Brooklyn, including Borough Park, Coney Island, Bensonhurst and Sunset Park. In their endorsement of Senator Savino, The New York Times described her as scrappy and effective. Savino sponsors a wide array of programs in the 23rd District, including the only Kosher soup kitchen in New York City, Staten Island's Downtown Drive In Movies, a mobile mammography unit, and several programs for at-risk youth and senior citizens.,“If there's anybody threatening the sanctity of marriage, it comes from those who have the privilege and the right, and we have abused it for decades.” — Diane Savino
Sheryl,WuDunn,Our century's greatest injustice,Author, journalist,www.halftheskymovement.org/pages/nicholas-and-sheryl,,Sheryl WuDunn and her husband, Nick Kristof, won a Pulitzer for their New York Times coverage of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Their joint reporting work in China and other developing nations convinced them both that, just as slavery was the moral issue of the 19th century, sex trafficking, gender-based violence and other abuses make women's rights the moral issue of the 21st.,In their book Half the Sky Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide , WuDunn and Kristof make the case for empowering women as a means of development . Women tend to spend more on education, nutrition and business, the economic engines of growth in a community. And if we can find ways to develop the untapped potential of the millions of women who are now left uneducated, denied basic rights, oppressed and threatened -- we'll turn on a firehose of economic power that could transform the developing world.
Jason,Clay,How big brands can help save biodiversity,Market transformer,www.worldwildlife.org/experts/jason-clay,,Jason Clay's ideas are changing the way governments, foundations, researchers and NGOs identify and address risks and opportunities for their work. He brings people together to improve environmentally sensitive practices in agriculture and aquaculture. Jason's goal is to create global standards for producing and using raw materials , particularly in terms of carbon and water. He has convened industry roundtables of retailers, buyers, producers and environmentalists to reduce the key impacts of producing soy, cotton, sugarcane, salmon, shrimp, mollusks, catfish and tilapia. Clay ran a family farm, taught at Harvard and Yale, worked at the U.S. Department of Agriculture and spent more than 25 years working with human rights and environmental organizations before joining WWF in 1999.,“Our goal is to figure out how to produce more with less land, less water and less pollution, so we won't be the only species left living on this planet.” — Jason Clay
Lewis,Pugh,My mind-shifting Everest swim,Coldwater swimmer,lewispugh.com/,,Lewis Gordon Pugh loves to pioneer new swimming routes around or between landmarks once thought unswimmable. In 2006, he swam the drought-stricken Thames, also that year he became the first swimmer to do a long-distance swim in all five oceans of the world. The following year, he made the first long-distance swim across the North Pole -- where climate change made the ice temporarily disappear. Heading into the second decade of his swimming career, he's regarded as the greatest cold-water swimmer in history. His swims have given him a sea-level view of our planet, and inspired him to do his bit to help preserve it. He left a career in maritime law to become a public speaker on environmental issues with his group, Polar Defence Project -- and of course to plan more astonishing swims and treks. In September 2008, Pugh and Robbie Hedgus kayaked across the Arctic Ocean into the polar ice pack, to raise awareness of the thinning sea ice and the dangers of climate change in the Arctic and across the world. And at the end of May 2010 he swam 1 kilometer across Pumori, a meltwater lake situated next to the Khumbu Glacier on Mount Everest, at an altitude of 5300 meters, to draw attention to the melting of the Asian glaciers. He completed the swim -- the highest any person has undertaken -- in less than 23 minutes. Glaciers are not just ice they are a lifeline, they provide water to 2 billion people, and we need to protect them, he says.,“Lewis has displayed remarkable determination, professionalism and single-mindedness in pursuit of his goals.” — Tony Blair
Laurie,Santos,A monkey economy as irrational as ours,Cognitive psychologist,caplab.yale.edu/,,Laurie Santos runs the Comparative Cognition Laboratory (CapLab) at Yale, where she and collaborators across departments (from psychology to primatology to neurobiology) explore the evolutionary origins of the human mind by studying lemurs, capuchin monkeys and other primates. The twist Santos looks not only for positive humanlike traits, like tool-using and altruism, but irrational ones, like biased decisionmaking.,In elegant, carefully constructed experiments, Santos and CapLab have studied how primates understand and categorize objects in the physical world -- for instance, that monkeys understand an object is still whole even when part of it is obscured. Going deeper, their experiments also search for clues that primates possess a theory of mind -- an ability to think about what other people think.
John,Delaney,Wiring an interactive ocean,Oceanographer,delaney.house.gov/,,John Delaney studies the physical, chemical and biological interactions found in the mid-ocean ridge system, specifically on the deep-sea volcanoes along the Juan de Fuca Ridge in the northeast Pacific Ocean. It's a complex, changeable world (that's also quite hard to get to). As part of the NSF's Ocean Observatories Initiative, Delaney is spearheading a bold new plan to gather unprecedented amounts of oceanic data.,Starting this year, Delaney and his team at the University of Washington are implanting robotic sensor arrays along the Juan de Fuca Ridge and other ocean sites, on the ocean floor and throughout the water column, all linked to the Internet via submarine electro-optical cables. The system will document and measure once-inaccessible phenomena such as erupting volcanoes, migration patterns, submarine slumps, undersea earthquakes and storms -- and it will feed that data into ever-richer computer models of ocean behavior.
Jeff,Bezos,What matters more than your talents,Online commerce pioneer, Amazon.com,,Jeff Bezos didn't invent online shopping, but he almost single-handedly turned it into a multi-billion-dollar enterprise. His Amazon.com began as a bookstore in 1994, and quickly expanded into dozens of product categories, forcing the world's biggest retailers to rethink their business models, and ultimately changing the way people shop . But Amazon.com isn't just an internet success story. It's the standard by which all web businesses are now judged -- if not by their shareholders, then by their customers. Amazon set a high bar for reliability and customer service, and also introduced a wide range of online retail conventions -- from user reviews and one-click shopping to the tab interface and shopping cart icon -- so commonplace we no longer think of them as once having been innovations. When the Internet bubble burst, Amazon.com took a hit with the other e-commerce pioneers, but the fundamentally sound company hung tough. It now sells more than $10 billion a year of goods, profitably , and its technology will influence the changes to business and media that will come next. Amazon recently released Kindle, a wireless digital reading device, giving the term page turning a completely new definition. Bezos, meanwhile, is one of the few early Web CEOs who still run the companies they founded. Outside of his work with Amazon, he recently founded Blue Origin , a space-flight startup.,“If the Internet was the new rock and roll, Jeff Bezos…was its Elvis … [Today he’s] the ultimate dotcom survivor. ” — BBCNews.comSheena,Iyengar,The art of choosing,Psycho-economist,sheenaiyengar.com/,,We all think we're good at making choices, many of us even enjoy making them. Sheena Iyengar looks deeply at choosing and has discovered many surprising things about it. For instance, her famous jam study, done while she was a grad student, quantified a counterintuitive truth about decisionmaking -- that when we're presented with too many choices, like 24 varieties of jam, we tend not to choose anything at all. (This and subsequent, equally ingenious experiments have provided rich material for Malcolm Gladwell and other pop chroniclers of business and the human psyche.),Iyengar's research has been informing business and consumer-goods marketing since the 1990s. But she and her team at the Columbia Business School throw a much broader net. Her analysis touches, for example, on the medical decisionmaking that might lead up to choosing physician-assisted suicide, on the drawbacks of providing too many choices and options in social-welfare programs, and on the cultural and geographical underpinning of choice. Her book The Art of Choosing shares her research in an accessible and charming story that draws examples from her own life.
Kevin,Stone,The bio-future of joint replacement,Surgeon, inventor,www.stoneclinic.com/dr-stone,,Orthopedic surgeon Kevin Stone knows mobility means more than just where you go -- it's the foundation for a fulfilling daily life. (True whether you're an athlete or not.) His Stone Clinic specializes in  biologic knee replacement  replacing damaged joint parts, not with artificial components, but with lab-grown tissue and parts from human donors. He and team are spearheading new techniques that use animal tissue but avoid the complications associated with animal-to-human transplantations. Stone has consulted publications such as The Wall Street Journal and Newsweek as a medical expert, he has contributed to TV programs such as ESPN's Treating Athletes in the New Millennium and The Discovery Channel.,“We can re-grow these surfaces biologically. Why isn't that good enough? There's not enough donor cycles. ... The solution is animal tissue.” — Kevin Stone
Tan,Le,A headset that reads your brainwaves,Entrepreneur, visualcv.com/tanttle,,Tan Le is the co-founder and president of Emotiv. Before this, she headed a firm that worked on a new form of remote control that uses brainwaves to control digital devices and digital media . It's long been a dream to bypass the mechanical (mouse, keyboard, clicker) and have our digital devices respond directly to what we think. Emotiv's EPOC headset uses 16 sensors to listen to activity across the entire brain. Software learns what each user's brain activity looks like when one, for instance, imagines a left turn or a jump.,Le herself has an extraordinary story -- a refugee from Vietnam at age 4, she entered college at 16 and has since become a vital young leader in her home country of Australia.
Dimitar,Sasselov,How we found hundreds of potential Earth-like planets,Astronomer,https//www.cfa.harvard.ed...,,Dimitar Sasselov is an astronomer who explores the interaction between light and matter. He studies, among other things, extrasolar planets, and he's a co-investigator on NASA's Kepler mission, which is monitoring 100,000 stars in a three-year hunt for exoplanets -- including Jupiter-sized giants. Sasselov watches for exoplanets by looking for transits, the act of a planet passing across the face of its star, dimming its light and changing its chemical signature. This simple, elegant way of searching has led to a bounty of newly discovered planets.,Sasselov is the director of Harvard's Origins of Life Initiative, a new interdisciplinary institute that joins biologists, chemists and astronomers in searching for the starting points of life on Earth (and possibly elsewhere). What is an astronomer doing looking for the origins of life, a question more often asked by biologists? Sasselov suggests that planetary conditions are the seedbed of life, knowing the composition and conditions of a planet will give us clues, perhaps, as to how life might form there. And as we discover new planets that might host life, having a working definition of life will help us screen for possible new forms of it. Other institute members such as biologist George Church and chemist George Whitesides work on the question from other angles, looking for (and building) alternative biologies that might fit conditions elsewhere in the universe.
Naif,Al-Mutawa,Superheroes inspired by Islam,Creator, The 99,www.al-mutawa.com/,,Widad the Loving, Bari the Healer, Mumita the Destroyer and friends, all working together to fight evil -- the virtues of Islam are embodied in the characters of the thrilling new comic The 99 . Naif Al-Mutawa, a clinical psychologist by training, created the characters with a team of artists and writers to showcase traditional, tolerant and enlightened Muslim values in the guise of good old-fashioned superheroes, ordinary mortals who acquire special powers and crisscross the globe on missions.,Soon, the 99 heroes will be saving the world alongside all-American heroes Superman, Wonder Woman and Batman in a crossover comic with the Justice League. The 99 comic is the corner stone of an expanding family (moving toward videogames and theme parks) that will bring these characters into the mainstream, an animated cartoon series has been announced for fall 2010 on US cable channel The Hub. And US President Barack Obama recently commended The 99 for capturing the imagination of young people through their message of tolerance.
Julian,Assange,Why the world needs WikiLeaks,Whistleblower,https//justice4assange.com/,,You could say Australian-born Julian Assange has swapped his long-time interest in network security flaws for the far-more-suspect flaws of even bigger targets governments and corporations. Since his early 20s, he has been using network technology to prod and probe the vulnerable edges of administrative systems , but though he was a computing hobbyist first (in 1991 he was the target of hacking charges after he accessed the computers of an Australian telecom), he's now taken off his white hat and launched a career as one of the world's most visible human-rights activists.,He calls himself editor in chief. He travels the globe as its spokesperson. Yet Assange's part in WikiLeaks is clearly dicier than that he's become the face of creature that, simply, many powerful organizations would rather see the world rid of . His Wikipedia entry says he is constantly on the move, and some speculate that his role in publishing decrypted US military video has put him in personal danger. A controversial figure, pundits debate whether his work is reckless and does more harm than good. Amnesty International recognized him with an International Media Award in 2009. Assange studied physics and mathematics at the University of Melbourne. He wrote Strobe, the first free and open-source port scanner, and contributed to the book Underground Tales of Hacking, Madness and Obsession on the Electronic Frontier .
Elif,Shafak,The politics of fiction,Novelist, ElifShafak.com,,Elif Shafak is the most-read female author in Turkey , where she is as well known for her descriptions of backstreets Istanbul as she is for her global and multicultural perspective. Her writing is at once rooted in her politically feminist education and her deep respect for and knowledge of Sufism and Ottoman culture.,Using these paradoxes, she creates a third way to understand Turkey's intricate history. Shafak's international sensibilities have been shaped by a life spent in a very diverse range of cities, including Ankara, Cologne, Madrid, Amman and Boston. She has written novels in Turkish -- such as her first work, Pinhan (The Sufi) -- as well as English, including her most recent novel, The Forty Rules of Love, in which two powerful parallel narratives take the reader from contemporary Boston to thirteenth-century Konya, where the Sufi poet Rumi encountered his spiritual mentor, the whirling dervish known as Shams.
Ethan,Zuckerman,Listening to global voices,Blogger, digital visionary,ethanzuckerman.com/,,Ethan Zuckerman is a senior researcher at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard University. His research focuses on the distribution of attention in mainstream and new media, the use of technology for international development, and the use of new media technologies by activists. He and his team recently launched Media Cloud, an open-source platform for studying online media that enables quantitative analysis of media attention.,With Rebecca MacKinnon, Ethan co-founded international blogging community Global Voices, sharing news and opinions from citizen media in over 150 nations, translating content from over 30 languages, and publishing editions in 20 languages. With support from foundation funders and media partners, Global Voices supports dozens of smaller citizen media projects in developing nations, and is a leading voice for free speech online. In 2000, Zuckerman founded Geekcorps, a technology volunteer corps that sends IT specialists to work on projects in developing nations, with a focus on West Africa. Geekcorps sent over 100 volunteers to projects throughout the developing world, working on projects that ranged from bringing internet connectivity to Malian radio stations to digitizing databases to manage Rwanda's Gacaca trials. In an earlier life, Zuckerman was a founder of Tripod.com. He's a legendarily dedicated blogger at ... My heart's in Accra.
Matt,Ridley,When ideas have sex,Rational optimist,www.mattridley.co.uk/,,British author Matt Ridley knows one thing Through history, the engine of human progress and prosperity has been, and is, the mating of ideas . The sophistication of the modern world, says Ridley, lies not in individual intelligence or imagination, it is a collective enterprise. In his book The Rational Optimist , Ridley (whose previous works include Genome and Nature via Nurture ) sweeps the entire arc of human history to powerfully argue that prosperity comes from everybody working for everybody else.,It is our habit of trade, idea-sharing and specialization that has created the collective brain which set human living standards on a rising trend. This, he says, holds out hope that the human race will prosper mightily in the years ahead -- because ideas are having sex with each other as never before.
Carl,Safina,The oil spill's unseen villains — and victims,Ecologist, writer,carlsafina.org/,,Carl Safina explores how the ocean is changing, and what those changes mean for wildlife and for people . In the 1990s he helped lead campaigns to ban high-seas driftnets, re-write US federal fisheries law, work toward international conservation of tunas, sharks and other fishes, and achieve passage of a UN global fisheries treaty. Safina is author of five books, and more than a hundred scientific and popular publications on ecology and oceans , including featured work in National Geographic and The New York Times . His first book, Song for the Blue Ocean , was chosen a New York Times Notable Book of the Year. His second, Eye of the Albatross , won the John Burroughs Medal for nature writing and was chosen by the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine as the year's best book for communicating science.,“Safina’s encyclopedic knowledge and spirited prose provide a stunningly intimate portrait of an environment.” — Publishers Weekly
Hans,Rosling,Global population growth, box by box,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Nalini,Nadkarni,Life science in prison,Tree researcher,nalininadkarni.com/,,Nalini Nadkarni has spent two decades climbing the trees of Costa Rica, Papua New Guinea, the Amazon and the Pacific Northwest, exploring the world of animals and plants that live in the canopy and never come down , and how this upper layer of the forest interacts with the world on the ground. A pioneering researcher in this area, Nadkarni created the Big Canopy Database to help researchers store and understand the rich trove of data she and others are uncovering.,Nadkarni teaches at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington, but her work outside the academy is equally fascinating -- using nontraditional vectors to teach the general public about trees and the ecosystem. For instance, she recently collaborated with the dance troupe Capacitor to explore the process of growth through the medium of the human body. In another project, she worked with prison inmates to grow moss for the horticulture trade, to relieve the collecting pressure on wild mosses. The project inspired in her students a new reverence for nature -- and some larger ecochanges at the prison.
Ellen,Gustafson,Obesity + hunger = 1 global food issue,Social entrepreneur,ellengustafson.com/,,Ellen Gustafson co-founded FEED Projects in 2007, creating an immensely popular bag whose profits are donated to the UN World Food Program (WFP). As a former employee of the WFP, she supported their mission to provide school lunches in developing countries so that children could receive both the nutrition and education they need. FEED has also created special bags and a new fund to address the crisis in Haiti, helping the children they once fed at school to rebuild their schools. At TEDxEast in May 2010, Gustafson launched The 30 Project -- an effort to address the world’s hunger and obesity problems as a holistic global food issue. In her new venture, she hopes to stimulate a movement that will change our food and agricultural systems over the next 30 years so that healthy, balanced meals are available to all. Before her efforts to fix the world’s food issues, Gustafson’s primary concern was international security. She wrote and edited pieces on international terrorism for ABC and was a research associate at the Council on Foreign Relations.,“Children around the world are suffering from malnutrition, despite there being enough food for everyone. ” — Ellen Gustafson
Benoit,Mandelbrot,Fractals and the art of roughness,Mathematician,users.math.yale.edu/mandelbrot/,,Studying complex dynamics in the 1970s, Benoit Mandelbrot had a key insight about a particular set of mathematical objects that these self-similar structures with infinitely repeating complexities were not just curiosities, as they'd been considered since the turn of the century, but were in fact a key to explaining non-smooth objects and complex data sets -- which make up, let's face it, quite a lot of the world. Mandelbrot coined the term fractal to describe these objects, and set about sharing his insight with the world. The Mandelbrot set (expressed as z² + c) was named in Mandelbrot's honor by Adrien Douady and John H. Hubbard. Its boundary can be magnified infinitely and yet remain magnificently complicated, and its elegant shape made it a poster child for the popular understanding of fractals . Led by Mandelbrot's enthusiastic work, fractal math has brought new insight to the study of pretty much everything, from the behavior of stocks to the distribution of stars in the universe.,Benoit Mandelbrot appeared at the first TED in 1984, and returned in 2010 to give an overview of the study of fractals and the paradigm-flipping insights they've brought to many fields. He died in October 2010 at age 85. Read more about his life on NYBooks.com >>
Mitchell,Joachim,Don't build your home, grow it!,Architect, designer,www.mitchelljoachim.com/,,Mitchell Joachim is a leader in ecological design and urbanism . He is a co-founder of Terreform ONE and Terrefuge, and is on the faculty at Columbia University and Parsons. Formerly he was an architect at Gehry Partners and Pei Cobb Freed, and he has been awarded the Moshe Safdie Research Fellowship.,Joachim won the History Channel and Infiniti Design Excellence Award for the City of the Future, and Time Magazine 's Best Invention of the Year 2007 for his Compacted Car with MIT's Smart Cities. His project, Fab Tree Hab, has been exhibited at MoMA and widely published. He was chosen by Wired for The 2008 Smart List 15 People the Next President Should Listen To.
Carter,Emmart,A 3D atlas of the universe,Scientist, Artist,https//penningtonplanetarium.wordpress.com/.../explore-the-universe-in...,,As the Director of Astrovisualization at the American Museum of Natural History , Carter Emmart directs their groundbreaking space shows and heads up development of an interactive 3D atlas called The Digital Universe. He coordinates scientists, programmers and artists to produce scientifically accurate yet visually stunning and immersive space experiences in the AMNH’s Hayden Planetarium. Over the last decade, he has directed four shows Passport to the Universe, The Search for Life Are we Alone?, Cosmic Collisions and Journey to the Stars. Emmart’s interest in space began early, and at ten he was taking astronomy courses in the old Hayden. As a child born into a family of artists, he naturally combined his love of science with his tendency for visualization. His first work was in architectural modeling, soon moving on to do scientific visualization for NASA and the National Center for Atmospheric Research, before joining the AMNH.,“My job is to translate the difficulty of science into understandable stories.” — Carter Emmart
Stephen,Palumbi,Hidden toxins in the fish we eat,Marine biologist,palumbi.stanford.edu/PeoplePages/Steve.html,,Stephen Palumbi teaches and does research in evolution and marine biology at Stanford University, and has long been fascinated by how quickly the world around us changes. His work on the genetics of marine organisms tries to focus on basic evolutionary questions but also on practical solutions to questions about how to preserve and protect the diverse life in the sea. DNA data on the genetics of marine populations like corals helps in the design and implementation of marine protected areas for conservation and fisheries enhancement. A second focus is on the use of molecular genetic techniques for the elucidation of past population sizes and dynamics of baleen whales, with the notion of recreating a better sense of the ecology of the virgin ocean. Palumbi has lectured extensively on human-induced evolutionary change, has used genetic detective work to identify whales for sale in retail markets, and is working on new methods to help design marine parks for conservation. His first book for non-scientists, The Evolution Explosion , documents the impact of humans on evolution. His latest is an unusual environmental success story called The Death and Life of Monterey Bay . He also helped write and research and appears in the BBC series The Future Is Wild and the History Channel's World Without People . Other recent films appearances include The End of the Line and an upcoming Canadian Broadcasting series One Ocean.,Palumbi's other passion microdocumentaries. His Short Attention Span Science Theater site received a million hits last year. And his band Sustainable Soul has several songs out, including Crab Love and The Last Fish Left.
Ellen,Dunham-Jones,Retrofitting suburbia,Architect,www.coa.gatech,,Ellen Dunham-Jones teaches architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology, is an award-winning architect and a board member of the Congress for the New Urbanism. She shows how design of where we live impacts some of the most pressing issues of our times -- reducing our ecological footprint and energy consumption while improving our health and communities and providing living options for all ages.,Dunham-Jones is widely recognized as a leader in finding solutions for aging suburbs. She is the co-author of Retrofitting Suburbia Urban Design Solutions for Redesigning Suburbs . She and co-author June Williamson share more than 50 case studies across North America of underperforming asphalt properties that have been redesigned and redeveloped into walkable, sustainable vital centers of community—libraries, city halls, town centers, schools and more.
Clay,Shirky,How cognitive surplus will change the world,Social Media Theorist, Shirky.com,,Clay Shirky's work focuses on the rising usefulness of networks -- using decentralized technologies such as peer-to-peer sharing, wireless, software for social creation, and open-source development. New technologies are enabling new kinds of cooperative structures to flourish as a way of getting things done in business, science, the arts and elsewhere, as an alternative to centralized and institutional structures, which he sees as self-limiting. In his writings and speeches he has argued that a group is its own worst enemy.,Shirky is an adjunct professor in New York University?s graduate Interactive Telecommunications Program , where he teaches a course named “ Social Weather .” He?s the author of several books. This spring at the TED headquarters in New York, he gave an impassioned talk against SOPA/PIPA that saw 1 million views in 48 hours.
Hillel,Cooperman,Legos for grownups,Entrepreneur, Lego enthusiast,hillelcooperman.com/,,Seattle-based entrepreneur and Lego enthusiast Hillel Cooperman founded Jackson Fish Market , a web software consultancy and design firm that has helped brands like Bing and WeSeed define their user experience.,His food exploration blog/review storehouse TastingMenu focuses on identifying, documenting and recommending superlative restaurant and eating experiences from all over the world.
Aditi,Shankardass,A second opinion on developmental disorders,Neuroscientist,www.faim.org/childhealth/draditishankardass.html,,Aditi Shankardass is a neuroscientist trained across three disciplines of the field neurophysiology, neuroanatomy and neuropsychology. She has also worked across different levels of the field, from cellular to cognitive neuroscience, and been based in research labs as well as diagnostic clinics. Currently, she leads the Neurophysiology Lab of the Communicative Disorders Department at California State University. Much of Shankardass' work has been devoted to the use of an advanced form of digital quantitative EEG (electroencephalography) technology that records the brain's activity in real time, and then analyzes it using complex display schematics and statistical comparisons to norms, enabling far more accurate diagnoses for children with developmental disorders. She is also actively involved in public outreach to increase understanding of brain disorders as a board member of the Global Neuroscience Initiative Foundation and a consultant for the BBC Science Line.,
Charles,Leadbeater,Education innovation in the slums,Innovation consultant,charlesleadbeater.net/about-me/,,Charles Leadbeater's theories on innovation have compelled some of the world's largest organizations to rethink their strategies. A financial journalist turned innovation consultant (for clients ranging from the British government to Microsoft), Leadbeater noticed the rise of pro-ams -- passionate amateurs who act like professionals , making breakthrough discoveries in many fields, from software to astronomy to kite-surfing. His 2004 essay The Pro-Am Revolution -- which The New York Times called one of the year's biggest global ideas -- highlighted the rise of this new breed of amateur. Prominent examples range from the mountain bike to the open-source operating system Linux, from Wikipedia to the Jubilee 2000 campaign , which helped persuade Western nations to cancel more than $30 billion in third-world debt. In his upcoming book, We-Think , Leadbeater explores how this emerging culture of mass creativity and participation could reshape companies and governments . A business reporter by training, he was previously an editor for the Financial Times , and later, The Independent , where, with Helen Fielding, he developed the Bridget Jones' Diary column. Currently, he is researching for Atlas of Ideas , a program that is mapping changes in the global geography of science and innovation.,“Charles Leadbeater is an extraordinarily interesting thinker. His book asks critical questions. I know it will be widely read and debated.” — Tony Blair
Marian,Bantjes,Intricate beauty by design,Designer, illustrator, typographer,bantjes.com,,Organic, logical, complex, beautiful Marian Bantjes' illustrations draw on her deep relationship with letterforms (she was a typesetter for ten years). With flowing lines, filigree and generosity, she plays in the space between a and b and c. Her illustration work has appeared in Wired , Wallpaper , the Walrus and many other magazines and newspapers worldwide, and once took over Saks Fifth Avenue top to bottom. She's also a blunt and funny writer on design and other matters, an advocate for self-reinvention, self-education (and formal education) and continuous self-appraisal. She works from her home on an island near Vancouver and sends legendary Valentine's Day cards.,“I would like to be remembered as someone who was always full of surprises.” — Marian Bantjes
Chip,Conley,Measuring what makes life worthwhile,CEO, author,https//chipconley.com/,,In 1987, at the age of 26 and seeking a little joy of life, Chip Conley founded Joie de Vivre Hospitality by transforming a small motel in San Francisco’s seedy Tenderloin district into the now-legendary Phoenix. Today, Joie de Vivre operates nearly 40 unique hotels across California, each built on an innovative design formula that inspires guests to experience an identity refreshment during their visits.,During the dotcom bust in 2001, Conley found himself in the self-help section of the bookstore, where he became reacquainted with one of the most famous theories of human behavior -- Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, which separates human desires into five ascending levels, from base needs such as eating to the highest goal of self-actualization, characterized by the full realization and achievement of one’s potential. Influenced by Maslow's pyramid, Conley revamped his business model to focus on the intangible, higher needs of his company's three main constituencies -- employees, customers and investors. He credits this shift for helping Joie de Vivre triple its annual revenues between 2001 and 2008.
Ananda,Shankar,Fighting cancer with dance,Dancer and choreographer,www.anandashankarjayant.com/,,Ananda Shankar Jayant is trained in two traditional forms of classical Indian dance, Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi. Both forms require long training and precise timing to express their essence -- and both forms, in Shankar Jayant's hands, are capable of exploring deep truths.,As a choreographer and performer, she uses dance to talk about gender issues (as in 1999's What About Me? ), mythology and philosophy , setting these carefully handed-down forms of dance onto a modern stage. She leads the Shankarananda Kalakshetra school in Hyderabad and Secunderabad, and is a scholar of dance and art, lecturing frequently on both throughout India.
Cameron,Herold,Let's raise kids to be entrepreneurs,Entrepreneur,www.cameronherold.com/,,For 20 years, Cameron Herold has been coaching entrepreneurs on five continents , helping them build their companies. He started BackPocket COO to coach and mentor young, fun companies -- and help them make their dreams happen. Herold was a leading force behind one of the most successful new business ventures of the last decade, 1-800-GOT-JUNK?. He was Chief Operating Officer for nearly seven years. Prior to that, he was VP of Corporate Development at Ubarter.com.,“Start building a network of fellow entrepreneurs that understand your passion and don’t make you feel guilty about always chasing it.” — Cameron Herold
Peter,Tyack,The intriguing sound of marine mammals,Behavioral ecologist,https//www.whoi.edu/profile.do?.,,Peter Tyack, a senior scientist in biology at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution , has always been intrigued by animal behavior. A class at Woods Hole while still in college led Peter down his current path of research on acoustic communication and social behavior in marine mammals.,He has studied the songs of humpback whales, the signature whistles of dolphins and the echolocation pulses of sperm whales and dolphins. Tyack has pioneered several new methods to sample the behavior of these mammals, including the development of sound-and-orientation recording tags. As a result of his work recording the sounds of whales, Tyack is concerned that the ubiquitous noises from human activity in the ocean -- sonar, oil rigs, motorboats, shipping traffic -- are disturbing marine mammals.
Margaret,Gould,How YouTube thinks about copyright,User experience master,www.fountly.com/,,Margaret Gould Stewart has spent her career asking, “How do we design user experiences that change the world in fundamental ways?” It's a powerful question that has led her to manage user experiences for six of the ten most visited websites in the world, including Facebook, where she serves as Director of Product Design.,Before joining Facebook, Margaret managed the User Experience Team for YouTube, where she oversaw the largest redesign in the company's history, including the YouTube player page. She came to YouTube after two years leading Search and Consumer Products UX at Google. She approaches her work with a combined appreciation for timeless great design and transient digital technologies, and always with the end goal of improving people's lives. As she says Design is creativity in service of others.
Michael,Shermer,The pattern behind self-deception,Skeptic,michaelshermer.com,,As founder and publisher of Skeptic Magazine , Michael Shermer has exposed fallacies behind intelligent design, 9/11 conspiracies, the low-carb craze, alien sightings and other popular beliefs and paranoias. But it's not about debunking for debunking's sake. Shermer defends the notion that we can understand our world better only by matching good theory with good science. Shermer's work offers cognitive context for our often misguided beliefs In the absence of sound science, incomplete information can powerfully combine with the power of suggestion (helping us hear Satanic lyrics when Stairway to Heaven plays backwards, for example). In fact, a common thread that runs through beliefs of all sorts, he says, is our tendency to convince ourselves We overvalue the shreds of evidence that support our preferred outcome, and ignore the facts we aren't looking for.,He writes a monthly column for Scientific American , and is an adjunct at Claremont Graduate University and Chapman University. His latest book is The Believing Brain From Ghosts and Gods to Politics and Conspiracies—How We Construct Beliefs and Reinforce Them as Truths . He is also the author of The Mind of the Market , on evolutionary economics, Why Darwin Matters Evolution and the Case Against Intelligent Design , and The Science of Good and Evil . And his next book is titled The Moral Arc of Science.
David,Byrne,How architecture helped music evolve,Musician, artist, writer,davidbyrne.com/,,Musician , author , filmmaker , curator, conservationist, digital music theorist, bicycle advocate , urban designer, visual artist, humanist ... David Byrne has many ways of expressing himself -- all of them heartfelt, authentic and thought-provoking.,From his groundbreaking recording career, first with Talking Heads and then as a solo artist and collaborator, to his recent use of digital media to connnect his creations to the world, he has been meshing art and technology to create jaw-dropping, soulful masterpieces that tell a story , and often invoke his audience to create some masterpieces of their own. In a recent art installation, Playing the Building , Byrne transformed an empty building into a musical instrument, and then invited visitors to play it.
Stewart,Brand,Debate Does the world need nuclear energy?,Environmentalist, futurist,sb.longnow.org/,,With biotech accelerating four times faster than digital technology, the revival of extinct species is becoming possible. Stewart Brand plans to not only bring species back but restore them to the wild.,Brand is already a legend in the tech industry for things he’s created the Whole Earth Catalog , The WELL, the Global Business Network, the Long Now Foundation, and the notion that “information wants to be free.” Now Brand, a lifelong environmentalist, wants to re-create -- or “de-extinct” -- a few animals that’ve disappeared from the planet.
Rory,Sutherland,Sweat the small stuff,Advertising guru,www.thewikiman.com/,,From unlikely beginnings as a classics teacher to his current job as Vice Chairman of Ogilvy Group, Rory Sutherland has created his own brand of the Cinderella story. He joined Ogilvy & Mather's planning department in 1988, and became a junior copywriter, working on Microsoft's account in its pre-Windows days. An early fan of the Internet, he was among the first in the traditional ad world to see the potential in these relatively unknown technologies. An immediate understanding of the possibilities of digital technology and the Internet powered Sutherland's meteoric rise. He continues to provide insight into advertising in the age of the Internet and social media through his blog at Campaign's Brand Republic site, his column The Wiki Man at The Spectator and his busy Twitter account .,“Rory is the original advocate of '360-degree branding,' a persuasive and charismatic speaker and has a tremendous knack for making ideas come to life in an easily digestible way. He has been walking the walk longer than anyone.” — Gary Leih, Ogilvy Group Chairman
John,Kasaona,How poachers became caretakers,Conservationist,www.irdnc.org.na/structure.htm,,John Kasaona is a leader in the drive to reinvent conservation in Namibia -- turning poachers into protectors of species. It’s a standard nature-documentary scenario a pristine animal habitat under constant threat by the people who live there, hunting, camping, setting fires. But John Kasaona knows there is a better way to see this relationship between people and environment. As the assistant director for the Integrated Rural Development and Nature Conservation (IRDNC) , Kasaona works on ways to improve the lives of rural people in Namibia by involving them in the management of the lands they live on -- and the species that live there with them.,Kasanoa's Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) program helps rural villages set up communal conservancies, which manage and use local natural resources in a sustainable manner. Essentially, it's about restoring the balance of land and people to that of pre-colonial times, and allowing the people with the most interest in the survival of their environment to have control of it. His work was featured in the recent film Milking the Rhino .
Michael,Sandel,The lost art of democratic debate,Political philosopher,www.gov.harvard.edu/people/faculty/michael-sandel,,Michael Sandel is one of the best known American public intellectuals. The London Observer calls him one of the most popular teachers in the world and indeed his lectures at Harvard draw thousands of students eager to discuss big questions of modern political life bioethics, torture, rights versus responsibilities, the value we put on things. Sandel's class is a primer on thinking through the hard choices we face as citizens. The course has been turned into a public TV series with companion website and book Justice What’s the Right Thing to Do? In his newest book, What Money Can't Buy, he challenges the idea that markets are morally neutral. To understand the importance of his purpose, a Guardian reviewer wrote of the book, you first have to grasp the full extent of the triumph achieved by market thinking in economics, and the extent to which that thinking has spread to other domains. This school sees economics as a discipline that has nothing to do with morality, and is instead the study of incentives, considered in an ethical vacuum. Sandel's book is, in its calm way, an all-out assault on that idea, and on the influential doctrine that the economic approach to utility maximisation explains all human behaviour.,Read more about his thinking on markets and morality Lunch with Michael Sandel on FT.com >>
Adam,Sadowsky,How to engineer a viral music video,Creative entrepreneur,sadowsky.net/,,Adam Sadowsky is the president of Syyn Labs -- a collective of talented people that bring aesthetics and engineering together to create really nifty interactive art. Syyn Labs is responsible for a potpourri of interesting gizmos, from augmented reality namebadges to sound-reactive fire sculpture, but are best known for the huge Rube Goldberg machine created for OK Go's music video This Too Shall Pass that instantly went viral via YouTube. In addition to engineering interactive art, Sadowsky serves as COO for the popular Mindshare LA events , where people across disciplines come together every month to share ideas (thought up while the founders were at TED2005). He is also the co-founder and vice president of the IBD Foundation , providing support to people with Crohn’s Disease and Ulcerative Colitis, having been diagnosed with the latter in 1984. Sadowsky has also worked in software, product design, video games, genetics research, online auctions and even had quite a successful acting stint, sharing the TV screen with both Jason Bateman and Matthew Perry .,
Brian,Cox,Why we need the explorers,Physicist,www.apolloschildren.com/,,Based at the University of Manchester, Brian Cox works at CERN in Geneva on the ATLAS experiment , studying the forward proton detectors for the Large Hadron Collider there. He's a professor at the University of Manchester, working in the High Energy Physics group, and is a research fellow of the Royal Society .,He's also become a vital voice in the UK media for explaining physics to the public . With his rockstar hair and accessible charm, he's the go-to physicist for explaining heady concepts on British TV and radio. (If you're in the UK, watch him on The Big Bang Machine .) He was the science advisor for the 2007 film Sunshine . He answers science questions every Friday on BBC6 radio's Breakfast Show .
Christopher,moot,The case for anonymity online,Founder, 4chan, 4chan.com,,Since its inception in 2003, Christopher moot Poole's controversial imageboard, 4chan, has gained worldwide notoriety as a breeding ground for many of the most recognizable Internet memes (think LOLcats). It was also the source of a high-profile hack of a mainstream media website and at least one spirited -- if morally inscrutable -- activist campaign in the real world. Despite the server-crippling traffic it attracts, this last major enclave of the untamed Internet terrifies advertisers, and moot struggles to keep it afloat. Though you might regard much of its content as obscene or just plain weird, it's become a fixture on the fringe of the mainstream -- and a cultural force all its own.,In January 2015 Poole stepped down from 4chan after eleven and a half years as its founding administrator.
Brian,Skerry,The ocean's glory — and horror,Photographer, brianskerry.com,,Using the camera as his tool of communication, Brian Skerry has spent the past three decades telling the stories of the ocean. His images portray not only the aesthetic wonder of the ocean but display an intense journalistic drive for relevance. Skerry's work brings to light the many pressing issues facing our oceans and its inhabitants. Typically spending eight months of the year in the field, he often face extreme conditions to capture his subjects. He has lived on the bottom of the sea, spent months aboard fishing boats and dived beneath the Arctic ice to get his shot. He has spent over 10,000 hours underwater. A contract photographer for National Geographic Magazine since 1998, Brian Skerry has had twelve stories published in the magazine with several more upcoming.,
John,Underkoffler,Pointing to the future of UI,Interface designer,www.oblong.com/,,When Tom Cruise put on his data glove and started whooshing through video clips of future crimes, how many of us felt the stirrings of geek lust? This iconic scene in Minority Report marked a change in popular thinking about interfaces -- showing how sexy it could be to use natural gestures, without keyboard, mouse or command line. John Underkoffler led the team that came up with this interface, called the g-speak Spatial Operating Environment. His company, Oblong Industries, was founded to move g-speak into the real world. Oblong is building apps for aerospace, bioinformatics, video editing and more . But the big vision is ubiquity g-speak on every laptop, every desktop, every microwave oven, TV, dashboard. It has to be like this, he says. We all of us every day feel that. We build starting there. We want to change it all. Before founding Oblong, Underkoffler spent 15 years at MIT's Media Laboratory, working in holography, animation and visualization techniques, and building the I/O Bulb and Luminous Room Systems.,“We're not finished until all the computers in the world work like this.” — John Underkoffler
Lawrence,Lessig,Re-examining the remix,Legal activist, rootstrikers.org,,Lawyer and activist Lawrence Lessig spent a decade arguing for sensible intellectual property law, updated for the digital age. He was a founding board member of Creative Commons , an organization that builds better copyright practices through principles established first by the open-source software community.,In 2007, just after his last TED Talk , Lessig announced he was leaving the field of IP and Internet policy, and moving on to a more fundamental problem that blocks all types of sensible policy -- the corrupting influence of money in American politics.
Sophie,Hunger,Songs of secrets and city lights,Singer,sophiehunger.com/,,Sophie Hunger's music lures us to a hidden place in the fog where memories visit, enchanting and mournful. This limbo is where the young Swiss singer-songwriter is most comfortable -- a crossroads of musical styles and young melancholy settling down to mature. After freak folk's quick fadeout in the early naughts, her first effort, 2006's Sketches on Sea , hinted that something new and cohesive was coming, and she might bring us to it.,Totally unknown as recently as 2005, a small pressing of Sketches was passed around Zurich literally by hand until critics (and the Two Gentleman label) took note -- and spread it through Switzerland, Germany and to London. Now she's booked solid for sold-out shows through the summer, traveling as frontwoman of her understated trio, including trombone, flute and keys -- sometimes joined by drums. Take care as you follow her delicate guitar riffs through these moody atmosphere-setters. You might get lost in them.
Seth,Berkley,HIV and flu — the vaccine strategy,Vaccine visionary,gavi.org,,Seth Berkley is an epidemiologist and the CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the global health organization protecting lives by improving access to vaccines in developing countries. Seth joined Gavi in 2011 in a period of rapid acceleration of Gavi’s programs. Now, with more than half a billion children immunized, he is leading Gavi’s efforts to reach a further 300 million children in the next five years and build sustainability into country immunization programs. Prior to Gavi, he spearheaded the development of vaccines for HIV as founder and CEO of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.,
Sharmeen,Obaid-Chinoy,Inside a school for suicide bombers,Filmmaker,sharmeenobaidfilms.com/,,Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy is a film producer and journalist who has worked on 14 films for major networks in the United States and Britain. Her films include Children of the Taliban (with Dan Edge), The Lost Generation (about Iraqi exiles) and Afghanistan Unveiled . Her work has taken her around the world, where she has filmed and worked with refugees, women’s advocacy groups and human rights defenders. By bringing their voices to the outside world, she has often helped them bring about a critical change in their community.,Obaid-Chinoy helped found the Citizens Archive of Pakistan, a nonprofit, volunteer organization that fosters and promotes community-wide interest in the culture and history of Pakistan. Citizens Archive works with thousands of children, teaching critical thinking skills and instilling a sense of pride about their history and identity.
Johanna,Blakley,Lessons from fashion's free culture,Media maven,https//johannablakley.wordpress.com/,,As the Deputy Director of the Norman Lear Center (a media-focused think tank at the University of Southern California) Johanna Blakley spends much of her time exploring how our entertainment interacts with our political, commercial and social habits . She is especially interested in the surprising impact of intellectual property rights on innovation, organizing conferences around the lack of creative ownership in fashion as well as technology and the ownership of creative content. Blakley has worked across a huge variety of media platforms -- producing for the web on a large scale, conducting gaming research, coordinating events for film festivals and executing consumer research on entertainment and politics. Drawing on this vast body of experience, she also lectures at USC and helped develop their masters program in Public Diplomacy.,
Ken,Robinson,Bring on the learning revolution!,Author/educator,sirkenrobinson.com/,,Why don't we get the best out of people? Sir Ken Robinson argues that it's because we've been educated to become good workers, rather than creative thinkers. Students with restless minds and bodies -- far from being cultivated for their energy and curiosity -- are ignored or even stigmatized, with terrible consequences. We are educating people out of their creativity, Robinson says. It's a message with deep resonance. Robinson's TEDTalk has been distributed widely around the Web since its release in June 2006. The most popular words framing blog posts on his talk? Everyone should watch this.,A visionary cultural leader, Sir Ken led the British government's 1998 advisory committee on creative and cultural education, a massive inquiry into the significance of creativity in the educational system and the economy , and was knighted in 2003 for his achievements. His 2009 book, The Element How Finding Your Passion Changes Everything , is a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 21 languages. A 10th anniversary edition of his classic work on creativity and innovation, Out of Our Minds Learning to be Creative , was published in 2011. His latest book, Finding Your Element How to Discover Your Talents and Passions and Transform Your Life , will be published by Viking in May 2013.
Craig,Venter,Watch me unveil synthetic life,Biologist, genetics pioneer,jcvi.org/,,Craig Venter, the man who led the private effort to sequence the human genome, is hard at work now on even more potentially world-changing projects.,First, there's his mission aboard the Sorcerer II , a 92-foot yacht , which, in 2006, finished its voyage around the globe to sample, catalouge and decode the genes of the ocean's unknown microorganisms. Quite a task, when you consider that there are tens of millions of microbes in a single drop of sea water. Then there's the J. Craig Venter Institute , a nonprofit dedicated to researching genomics and exploring its societal implications.
Richard,Sears,Planning for the end of oil,Geophysicist,www.richardsearsdirector.com/narrative/,,Richard Sears is a visiting scientist at MIT, after a long career as a geophysicist and executive at Shell. His brief in both places Think about the world post-oil. It's a corporate-academic crossover that aims to enrich the academic conversation with real-world experience from people like Sears, who is an expert in looking for new energy resources -- both hydrocarbon and the world of options for what's next.,At MIT, Sears is affiliated with the MIT Energy Initiative and the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems (LIDS). He's also an official gamechanger at LeadingEnergyNow.
Dee,Boersma,Pay attention to penguins,Conservation biologist,www.penguinstudies.org/,,To Dee Boersma, penguins are more than charming birds in tuxes. Highly sensitive to variations in the ocean, penguins are sentinels, sounding the alarm on environmental threats to marine ecosystems. As director of the the Wildlife Conservation Society's Penguin Project, she has dedicated almost three decades to tracking them in the South Atlantic. Using nametags -- numbered metal bands -- Boersma and her team follow hundreds of individual penguins to learn where they go, what they eat and how they survive to the next breeding season.,Boersma's studies show that the birds must now swim further in search of food, costing energy and time, leading to detrimental consequences for their mate and young. Her data does not paint a pretty picture, but local conservation efforts she spearheaded, such as moving oil tanker lanes further from the coast, have been successful. Humans, she notes, are responsible for penguins' current woes but can also be their saviors.
Graham,Hill,Why I'm a weekday vegetarian,Journalist,TreeHugger.com,,,“You should be allowed to be a modern city dweller and still care about the environment.” — Graham Hill
William,Li,Can we eat to starve cancer?,Cancer researcher, angio.org,,Many of society’s most devastating diseases -- cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and Alzheimer’s, to name a few -- share a common denominator faulty angiogenesis, the body’s growth of new capillary blood vessels. Given excessive or insufficient blood vessel growth, serious health issues arise. While researching under Harvard surgeon Judah Folkman, who pioneered the study of angiogenesis, Li learned how angiogenesis-based medicine helps patients overcome numerous diseases by restoring the balance of blood-vessel growth. Li co-founded the Angiogenesis Foundation in 1994. The foundation’s Project ENABLE -- a global system that integrates patients, medical experts and healthcare professionals -- democratizes the spread and implementation of knowledge about angiogenesis-based medicines, diet and lifestyle. Some 40,000 physicians have been educated on new treatments, ranging from cancer care to wound care, by the foundation’s faculty of medical experts, and they are bringing new, lifesaving and disease-preventing techniques to people around the world.,“Imagine that one medical advancement held the promise to conquer cancer, perhaps within your lifetime … the potential to also end more than 70 of life's most threatening conditions, affecting one billion people worldwide. This is the promise of angiogenesis, the first medical revolution of the 21st century.” — William Li
Viktor,Frankl,Why believe in others,Psychiatrist, neurologist, author,www.viktorfrankl.org/e/lifeandwork.html,,Viktor E. Frankl was Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry at the University of Vienna Medical School. He spent three years during World War II in concentration camps, including Theresienstadt, Auschwitz, and Dachau, where he formulated many of his key ideas. Logotherapy , his psychotherapeutic school, is founded on the belief that striving to find meaning in life is the most powerful motivation for human beings. Frankl wrote 39 books, which were published in 38 languages. His best-known, Man's Search for Meaning , gives a firsthand account of his experiences during the Holocaust, and describes the psychotherapeutic method he pioneered. The Library of Congress called it one of the ten most influential books in America. Frankl lectured on five continents.,“Challenging the meaning of life is the truest expression of the state of being human. ” — Viktor Frankl
Julia,Sweeney,It's time for The Talk,Actor, comedian, playwright,juliasweeney.com/,,Known for her four-year run on Saturday Night Live and her powerful solo shows, Julia Sweeney is carving out her own territory in entertainment, one that moves between the personal and the political, the controversial and the comical. Her piece Letting Go of God traces a spiritual journey that takes an unexpected turn toward science (a turn that, incidentally, also led her to TED) and ends with atheism. Her latest book is If It's Not One Thing, It's Your Mother, on parenting and being parented. In this, as in all her performances, Sweeney projects a warmth and sincerity on stage that's unmatched in today's theater, you immediately feel you're chatting with an old friend. And this gift of intimacy allows her to achieve the impossible an utterly disarming show that honestly confronts the most controversial topic of our times. Her earlier shows God Said “Ha!” and In the Family Way also garnered praise and prizes for their pairings of humor and poignant truth.,“Without breaking her affably conversational tone, in Letting Go of God she inhabits the emotional memory of each step on her path.” — New York Times
Dan,Meyer,Math class needs a makeover,Educator,mrmeyer.com/,,Dan Meyer asks,  How can we design the ideal learning experience for students?  As a part-time Googler, a provocative blogger and a full-time high-school math teacher, his perspective on curriculum design, teacher education and teacher retention is informed by tech trends and online discourse as much as front-line experience with students.,Meyer has spun off his enlightening message -- that teachers be less helpful and push their students to formulate the steps to solve math problems -- into a nationwide tour-of-duty on the speaking circuit.
Enric,Sala,Glimpses of a pristine ocean,Marine ecologist,www.nationalgeographic.com/.../enric-sala/,,Enric Sala is a marine ecologist who fell in love with the sea growing up on the Mediterranean coast of Spain. Witnessing the harm people do to the oceans led him to dedicate his career to understand and find ways to mitigate human impacts on marine life .,Sala’s research aims at providing the essential amount of information needed for policy change. His research includes an important exploration component, searching for the last healthy marine ecosystems that can give us an understanding of the past and the present that can be used to inform the future. One of his present goals is to help protect the last pristine marine ecosystems worldwide. His scientific publications are widely recognized and used for real-world conservation efforts such as the creation of marine reserves. He is leading a global marine conservation initiative at National Geographic Society in Washington, D.C.
Nathan,Myhrvold,Could this laser zap malaria?,Polymath,www.nathanmyhrvold.com/,,Since leaving his post as Microsoft's Chief Technology Officer in 1999 (with fortune in tow), Nathan Myhrvold has been a professional exemplar of the spirit of the Renaissance Man, proudly following his interests wherever they've led. His dispersed passions have triggered an impressive list of accomplishments, including world barbecue championships, major archeological finds (several Tyrannosaurus rex skeletons), prize-winning wildlife photography , building a section of Babbage's Difference Engine #2, s, and a new and consuming interest in the sous-vide cooking technique . Malcolm Gladwell's 2008 New Yorker profile of him revealed an impish but truly inspired character whose latest company, Intellectual Ventures -- which brainstorms and patents a wide array of inventions -- has been accused in some quarters of acting like a 'patent troll' but is described by Myhrvold as a disruptive organization providing an efficient way for patent holders to get paid for the inventions they own, and... for technology companies to gain easy access to the invention rights they need. After funding big-vision projects such as the Allen Telescope Array , exploring active volcanoes and investigating penguin digestion, Myhrvold insists that his hobbies aren't as discursive as they seem. They do have a common denominator, after all him.,“He is gregarious, enthusiastic, and nerdy on an epic scale.” — Malcolm Gladwell
Nicholas,Christakis,The hidden influence of social networks,Physician, social scientist,nicholaschristakis.net,,People aren't merely social animals in the usual sense, for we don't just live in groups. We live in networks -- and we have done so ever since we emerged from the African savannah. Via intricately branching paths tracing out cascading family connections, friendship ties, and work relationships, we are interconnected to hundreds or even thousands of specific people, most of whom we do not know. We affect them and they affect us.,Nicholas Christakis' work examines the biological, psychological, sociological, and mathematical rules that govern how we form these social networks, and the rules that govern how they shape our lives. His work shows how phenomena as diverse as obesity, smoking, emotions, ideas, germs, and altruism can spread through our social ties, and how genes can partially underlie our creation of social ties to begin with. His work also sheds light on how we might take advantage of an understanding of social networks to make the world a better place.
Thomas,Dolby,Love Is a Loaded Pistol,Electronic music pioneer,www.thomasdolby.com/,,Perhaps best known for blinding us with science, TED Music Director Thomas Dolby has always blurred the lines between composition and invention . As a London teenager, Tom Robertson was fascinated with the convergence of music and technology. His experiments with an assortment of keyboards, synthesizers and cassette players led his friends to dub him “Dolby.” That same fascination later drove him to become an electronic musician and multimedia artist whose groundbreaking work fused music with computer technology and video . Two decades, several film scores, five Grammy nominations and countless live-layered sound loops later, it's clear Dolby's innovations have changed the sound of popular music. In the 1990s, Dolby re-created himself as a digital-musical entrepreneur, founding Beatnik, which developed the polyphonic ringtone software used in more than half a billion cell phones. Now back to touring and recording (after a 15-year hiatus), he's using seriously retro technology -- '40s-era oscilloscopes and Royal Navy field-test equipment -- to control his modern synthesizers, in shows that are at once nostalgic and cutting edge. And he continues his tenure as TED's Music Director , leading the eclectic characters of the TED House Band.,“Dolby enjoys the enviable position of not having to make music for a living, and that allows him to give serious consideration to what's important to him about being a pop artist.” — San Francisco Chronicle
Anil,Gupta,India's hidden hotbeds of invention,Innovation advocate,www.anilgupta.com/,,Looking to the poor of India, business professor Anil Gupta saw innovations and talent that were not being supported. In response, he started the Honey Bee Network and began searching the country with colleagues, often on foot, finding a myriad of inventions developed out of necessity. These discoveries are documented and often shared with the global community, just as pollen is gathered by the honeybee to the benefit of both. Since 1988, the network's database of original inventions has grown to over 12,000, and its newsletter is now published in eight languages and distributed to 75 countries.,Gupta also worked with the government of India to establish the National Innovation Foundation, which holds national competitions to encourage new inventors and helps sustain them through the National Micro Venture Innovation Fund. Through his efforts, Gupta has uncovered groundbreakingly useful devices such as a pedal-operated washing machine, a micro-windmill battery charger, a hoe powered by a bicycle, and many more.
Jeremy,Jackson,How we wrecked the ocean,Marine ecologist,cmbc.ucsd.edu › People › Faculty and Researchers,,Jeremy Jackson is the Ritter Professor of Oceanography and Director of the Center for Marine Biodiversity and Conservation at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Painting pictures of changing marine environments, particularly coral reefs and the Isthmus of Panama, Jackson's research captures the extreme environmental decline of the oceans that has accelerated in the past 200 years.,Jackson's current work focuses on the future of the world’s oceans, given overfishing, habitat destruction and ocean warming, which have fundamentally changed marine ecosystems and led to the rise of slime. Although Jackson's work describes grim circumstances, even garnering him the nickname Dr. Doom, he believes that successful management and conservation strategies can renew the ocean’s health.
Simon,Sinek,How great leaders inspire action,Leadership expert,startwithwhy.com,,Fascinated by the leaders who make impact in the world, companies and politicians with the capacity to inspire, Simon Sinek has discovered some remarkable patterns in how they think, act and communicate. He wrote Start With Why How Great Leaders Inspire Everyone to Take Action to explore his idea of the Golden Circle, what he calls a naturally occurring pattern, grounded in the biology of human decision making, that explains why we are inspired by some people, leaders, messages and organizations over others. His newest work explores  circles of safety , exploring how to enhance feelings of trust and confidence in making bold decisions. It's the subject of his latest book, Leaders Eat Last .,An ethnographer by training, Sinek is an adjunct of the RAND Corporation. He writes and comments regularly for major publications and teaches graduate-level strategic communications at Columbia University.
Esther,Duflo,Social experiments to fight poverty,Development economist,www.povertyactionlab.org/duflo,,2009 MacArthur fellow Esther Duflo is pushing the field of development economics by studying specific causal relationships that lead to or perpetuate poverty. She looks at close-to-home issues household behavior, education, access to finance and health.,At MIT, she's the founder and director of the Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) , a research network that evaluates social programs. It's concerned less with wide-ranging policy than with specific questions. Sample If schoolkids could get their uniforms for free, would attendance go up? What's an effective way to reward mothers for immunizing their babies? Randomized trials offer new insights toward creating global equity and prosperity. Her work may blur the lines between economics and activism, but it's a role Duflo not only considers comfortable but vital.
Sebastian,Wernicke,Lies, damned lies and statistics (about TEDTalks),Statistics whiz,https//www.ted.com/speakers/sebastian_wernicke,,Currently an Engagement Manager at Oliver Wyman, Sebastian Wernicke originally studied bioinformatics at Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena. During his time in academia, he devised an algorithm for analyzing biological networks that now aids researchers in dealing with their innate complexity.,Before his career in statistics began, Wernicke worked stints as both a paramedic and successful short animated filmmaker. He's also the author of the TEDPad app, an irreverent tool for creating an infinite number of amazing and really bad and mostly completely meaningless talks. He's the author of the statistically authoritative and yet completely ridiculous  How to Give the Perfect TEDTalk. 
George,Whitesides,Toward a science of simplicity,Chemist,https//gmwgroup.harvard.edu/content.php?...gwhites..,,Someday Harvard chemistry professor George Whitesides will take the time to look back on the 950 scientific articles he's coauthored, the dozen companies he's co-founded or the 50-plus patents on which he's named. (He works in four main areas biochemistry, materials science, catalysis and physical organic chemistry.) In the meantime, he's trying to invent a future where medical diagnosis can be done by anyone for little or no cost . He's co-founded a nonprofit called Diagnostics for All that aims to provide dirt-cheap diagnostic devices, to provide healthcare in a world where cost is everything. Among his solutions is a low-cost lab-on-a-chip , made of paper and carpet tape. The paper wicks bodily fluids -- urine, for example -- and turns color to provide diagnostic information, such as how much glucose or protein is present. His goal is to distribute these simple paper diagnostic systems to developing countries, where people with basic training can administer tests and send results to distant doctors via cameraphone.,“Most of the world is self-assembly. We are self-assembled systems.” — George Whitesides
Roz,Savage,Why I'm rowing across the Pacific,Ocean rower, rozsavage.com,,A latecomer to the life of adventure, Roz Savage worked as a management consultant for 11 years before setting out in a new life direction -- in a rowboat across the Atlantic Ocean. She completed her solo row across the Atlantic in 2005 and is now on a mission be the first woman to row solo across the Pacific, from the West Coast of the US to Australia. She began the pursuit in 2008, rowing from California to Hawaii, and rowed from Hawaii to Kiribati in 2009. In April 2010 she began the third and final stage of her Pacific row, from Kiribati to Australia. When not on the open seas, Roz is a passionate environmental campaigner, focused on sustainability and ending plastic pollution. She's working on the new site EcoHeroes.me , where everyday acts of environmental heroism (as simple as refusing a plastic carrier bag) can be tracked and celebrated.,“I find Roz an exceptional woman who is leading an exceptional life she is brave, strong, and was not afraid to turn her life upside down.” — feministdaily.wordpress.comStephen,Wolfram,Computing a theory of all knowledge,Scientist, inventor,www.stephenwolfram.com/,,Stephen Wolfram published his first scientific paper at the age of 15, and received his PhD in theoretical physics from Caltech by the age of 20. Having started to use computers in 1973, Wolfram rapidly became a leader in the emerging field of scientific computing . In 1981 Wolfram became the youngest recipient of a MacArthur Prize Fellowship. He then set out on an ambitious new direction in science aimed at understanding the origins of complexity in nature. Wolfram's first key idea was to use computer experiments to study the behavior of simple computer programs known as cellular automata . This allowed him to make a series of startling discoveries about the origins of complexity. Wolfram founded the first research center and the first journal in the field, Complex Systems, and began the development of Mathematica. Wolfram Research soon became a world leader in the software industry -- widely recognized for excellence in both technology and business. Following the release of Mathematica Version 2 in 1991, Wolfram began to divide his time between Mathematica development and scientific research. Building on his work from the mid-1980s, and now with Mathematica as a tool, Wolfram made a rapid succession of major new discoveries, which he described in his book, A New Kind of Science . Building on Mathematica, A New Kind of Science , and the success of Wolfram Research, Wolfram recently launched Wolfram|Alpha -- an ambitious, long-term project to make as much of the world's knowledge as possible computable , and accessible to everyone.,“Whether or not Wolfram's revolution ultimately gives us the keys to the universe, his new science is absolutely awe-inspiring.” — Therese Littleton
Kavita,Ramdas,Radical women, embracing tradition,Philanthropist,www.globalfundforwomen.org/.../1786-intervie.,,Kavita Ramdas is president and CEO of the Global Fund for Women , a publicly supported grantmaking foundation that advances human rights by investing in women-led organizations worldwide. Over the past 22 years, the Global Fund has provided more than 7,000 grants, reaching more than 3,000 groups. Since Ramdas took the reins, the fund's assets have more than tripled -- and so has the number of countries the group works in, now at 170.,The Global Fund for Women contributes to groups that improve women's economic security, work to end gender-based violence, increase access to education at all stages of life, provide critical health services and encourage women to take leadership roles in the public sector. In interviews, Ramdas has said that grantmakers can learn as much from applicants as applicants do from them . This is a philosophy she employs at Global Fund, where grants are often given with as few strings attached as possible, and proposals are accepted in any language. Her vision stands to change the game, not only in women's rights but in philanthropy as a whole.
Omar,Ahmad,Political change with pen and paper,Technologist, city councilman, OmarAhmad.com,,Omar Ahmad was the co-founder and CEO of SynCH Energy Corporation, a renewable energy startup. Prior to founding SynCH Energy, Ahmad founded TrustedID and Logictier and served in key leadership positions for such companies as Grand Central Communications, Napster, Netscape, @Home Network and Discovery Channel Online.,Ahmad was the mayor of the City of San Carlos, after serving for many years on the City Council of this Silicon Valley town. His policy focus centered on budget reform and fiscal sustainability.
Tom,Wujec,Build a tower, build a team,Designer,tomwujec.com,,Tom Wujec is a Fellow at Autodesk, the makers of design software for engineers, filmmakers, designers. At Autodesk, he has worked on software including SketchBook Pro, PortfolioWall and Maya (which won an Academy Award for its contribution to the film industry). As a Fellow, he helps companies work in the emerging field of business visualization, the art of using images, sketches and infographics to help teams solve complex problems as a group.,He's the author of several books, including Five-Star Mind Games and Puzzles to Stimulate Your Creativity and Imagination .
Frederick,Balagadde,Bio-lab on a microchip,Inventor,www.k-rith.org/scientists-research/.../frederick-balagaddé,,Frederick Balagadde is a research scientist in the Engineering Technologies Division at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. As a graduate student at Caltech and Stanford University, Frederick invented the micro-chemostat  a first-of-its-kind microfabricated fluidic chip that mimics a biological cell culture environment in a highly complex web of tiny pumps and human hair-sized water hoses, all controlled by a multitasking computer. Frederick's pioneering research has attracted interest in the scientific community, including a publication in Science Magazine .,Frederick was a TEDGlobal 2009 Fellow and is a TED Senior Fellow .
James,Randi,Homeopathy, quackery and fraud,Skeptic and conjuror,web.randi.org/about-james-randi.html,,James Randi has an international reputation as a magician and escape artist, but he is perhaps best known as the world's most tireless investigator and demystifier of paranormal and pseudoscientific claims. Randi has pursued psychic spoonbenders, exposed the dirty tricks of faith healers, investigated homeopathic water with a memory, and generally been a thorn in the sides of those who try to pull the wool over the public's eyes in the name of the supernatural. He has received numerous awards and recognitions, including a MacArthur genius grant in 1986. He's the author of numerous books, including The Truth About Uri Geller , The Faith Healers , Flim-Flam! , and An Encyclopedia of Claims, Frauds, and Hoaxes of the Occult and Supernatural .,In 1996, the James Randi Education Foundation was established to further Randi's work. Randi's long-standing challenge to psychics now stands as a $1,000,000 prize administered by the Foundation. It remains unclaimed.
Edith,Widder,Glowing life in an underwater world,Marine biologist,www.teamorca.org/cfiles/about_edie.cfm,,A specialist in bioluminescence, Edith Widder helps design and invent new submersible instruments and equipment to study bioluminescence and enable unobtrusive observation of deep-sea environments. Her innovative tools for exploration have produced footage of rare and wonderful bioluminescent displays and never-before-seen denizens of the deep, including, most recently, the first video ever recorded of the giant squid, Architeuthis , in its natural habitat. In 2005 she founded the Ocean Research & Conservation Association (ORCA), which is dedicated to protecting aquatic ecosystems and the species they sustain through the development of innovative technologies and science-based conservation action., In an effort to protect and revitalize the ocean she loves she has been focusing on developing tools for finding and tracking pollution -- a major threat to all of our water ecosystems and ultimately to human health. She was awarded a MacArthur genius grant in 2006.,In 2012, Widder was among the team that filmed the giant squid ( Architeuthis ) for the first time in its home ocean.
Eric,Whitacre,A choir as big as the Internet,Composer, conductor, EricWhitacre.com,,Eric Whitacre began his music career singing in his college choir, by 21, he had written his first concert work, Go, Lovely Rose , and advanced to Juilliard, where he studied under John Corigliano. Today, he has published more than four dozen choral works, conducted in some of the most esteemed halls in the world, and featured on dozens of recordings. His album Cloudburst and Other Choral Works earned him a Grammy nomination in 2007, as did his Decca debut Light & Gold , while his new album, Water Night , debuted at #1 in US iTunes classical charts.,You may know him, too, as the creator and conductor of the virtual choir , a network of YouTube-connected singers whose voices blend together online to become true magic. And he's now touring with the Eric Whitacre Signers, a 28-voice choir (yes, they're all in the same room).
Thelma,Golden,How art gives shape to cultural change,Curator,www.studiomuseum.org/s/.../Thelma%20Gold...,,Culling an interest in art history from a childhood board game, Thelma Golden knew her dream job even before she knew what to call it. She stumbled upon the title and role she was looking for -- curator -- at the age of 12, and started up the ladder early, landing at the Whitney Museum in 1988, just one year after college. She was a co-curator of the 1993 Whitney Biennial, a controversial landmark show that showcased overtly political art made by a significant percentage of nonwhite nonmales and paved the way for topics of race, gender and identity to be discussed institutionally.,Golden first burst into the limelight as a solo curator with The Black Male Representations of Masculinity in Contemporary American Art at the Whitney in 1994. Brilliantly imagined and carefully envisioned (and provoking controversy from a few corners), the show cemented her reputation as a formidable and fearless curator. In 2005, Golden became director and chief curator of the Studio Museum in Harlem, re-dedicating the institution to forward-facing art from all corners of the African Diaspora. She keeps an eye on young and developing artists, while using the Studio Museum to write the history of collecting and art-making in Harlem and around the world.
Catherine,Mohr,The tradeoffs of building green,Roboticist,catherinemohr.com,,Catherine Mohr began her career as an engineer, working for many years with Paul MacCready at AeroVironment to develop alternative-energy vehicles and high-altitude aircraft. Her midcareer break medical school, where she invented a brilliantly simple device, the LapCap, that makes laproscopic surgeries safer.,Mohr now oversees the development of next-generation surgical robots and robotic procedures, as the director of medical research at Intuitive Surgical Inc., where she's the clinical design leader for the DaVinci Surgical Robotic system. She also works at Stanford's School of Medicine, where she studies simulation-based teaching methods to teach clinical skills to budding doctors. And she's a senior scientific advisor to the GlobalSolver Foundation, an innovative funding and study group that looks at ways to match up scientists and money to help the world's oceans.
Jonathan,Klein,Photos that changed the world,Executive,press.gettyimages.com/executives/jonathan-klein,,Even if you're an infrequent (or less sporty) user of the World Wide Web, chances are the last time you logged on -- perhaps on the very last page you visited -- you've come across an image sourced from stock photo agency Getty Images . Photos and illustrations from Getty can be found everywhere, for just about every purpose you can imagine. It shouldn't surprise you that Getty began in the Internet age, leaving print-era agencies in the dust by using Internet and CD-ROM distribution since day one. Jonathan Klein, Getty's co-founder (along with Mark Getty) and the current CEO, helped drive its success over the past 15 years. He led it during its aggressive archive acquisition campaign through the '90s and now in the 2000s, adding to its formidable collection of editorial photos, footage and music. But his business skill is only part of his story, to hear Klein talk , one is quick to catch his passionate enthusiasm for the power of images -- not only to document moments in our lives and in history, not just to sell products or turn over PR campaigns -- but to shift public opinion and, perhaps, make the world more just. Klein serves on the board of the Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS and on the board of Real Networks (media software company and creator of the popular RealPlayer).,“Images have provoked reactions in people, and those reactions have caused change to happen.” — Jonathan Klein
Michael,Specter,The danger of science denial,Writer,www.michaelspecter.com/,,Michael Specter's new book, Denialism How Irrational Thinking Hinders Scientific Progress, Harms the Planet and Threatens Our Lives , dives into a worrisome strain of modern life -- a vocal anti-science bias that may prevent us from making the right choices for our future . Specter studies how the active movements against vaccines, genetically engineered food, science-based medicine and biotechnological solutions to climate change may actually put the world at risk. (For instance, anti-vaccination activists could soon trigger the US return of polio, not to mention the continuing rise of measles.) More insidiously, the chilling effect caused by the new denialism may prevent useful science from being accomplished. Specter has been a writer for the New Yorker for more than a decade, before that, he was a science writer and then the Moscow bureau chief for the New York Times . He writes about science and politics for the New Yorker , with a fascinating sideline in biographical profiles.,“Denialism is a virus and viruses are contagious.” — Michael Specter
Natalie,Merchant,Singing old poems to life,Singer/songwriter,www.nataliemerchant.com,,In the 1980s, Natalie Merchant led the great folk-rock band 10,000 Maniacs . She went solo in the '90s, and to maintain creative control over her music, she self-funded her debut album, Tigerlily , which had chart-toppers like Jealousy, Carnival and Wonder. She recorded her sophomore album, Ophelia , at her home studio, the album went platinum, and she headlined at Lilith Fair and joined the American Folk Music Tour before releasing Motherland , which paired her rich voice with more strings.,Merchant independently released her 2003 album, The House Carpenter's Daughter , which veers back toward classic folk, she covers traditional songs such as House Carpenter and Weeping Pilgrim, an 18th-century hymnal she found in the NY Public Library archives. Merchant is dedicated to supporting a wide array of nonprofits and social justice groups . For the past five years, she has been researching, writing and recording a collection of songs adapted from the works of classic and contemporary poets. She is set to release Leave Your Sleep in March 2010.
Jonathan,Drori,Every pollen grain has a story,Educator,thoughtsmith.com/people/jonathan-drori/,,Jonathan Drori has dedicated his career to media and learning. As the Head of Commissioning for BBC Online, he led the effort to create bbc.co.uk, the online face of the BBC (an effort he recalls fondly ). He came to the web from the TV side of the BBC, where as an editor and producer he headed up dozens of television series on science, education and the arts.,After almost two decades at the BBC, he's now a director at Changing Media Ltd., a media and education consultancy, and is a visiting professor at University of Bristol, where he studies educational media and misperceptions in science . He continues to executive produce the occasional TV series, including 2004's award-winning The DNA Story and 2009's Great Sperm Race. He is on the boards of the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Woodland Trust.
Dennis,Hong,My seven species of robot,Roboticist, RoMeLa.com,,As director of a groundbreaking robotics lab, Dennis Hong guides his team of students through projects on robot locomotion and mechanism design , creating award-winning humanoid robots like DARwIn (Dynamic Anthropomorphic Robot with Intelligence). His team is known as RoMeLa (Robotics & Mechanisms Laboratory) and operates at Virginia Tech. Hong has also pioneered various innovations in soft-body robots , using a “whole-skin locomotion” as inspired by amoebae. Marrying robotics with biochemistry, he has been able to generate new types of motion with these ingenious forms. For his contributions to the field, Hong was selected as a NASA Summer Faculty Fellow in 2005, given the CAREER award by the National Science Foundation in 2007 and in 2009, named as one of Popular Science 's Brilliant 10. He is also a gourmet chef and a magician, performing shows for charity and lecturing on the science of magic.,“I still cannot forget the mind-blowing sensation when I first watched the movie Star Wars. I was fascinated by R2D2 and C-3PO. Since then, I decided to become a robot scientist and never changed my mind.” — Dennis Hong
Dean,Kamen,The emotion behind invention,Inventor,www.dekaresearch.com/founder.shtml,,Dean Kamen is an innovator, but not just of things. He hopes to revolutionize attitudes, quality of life, awareness. While an undergraduate, he developed the first portable infusion device, which delivers drug treatments that once required round-the-clock hospital care. And, through his DEKA Research and Development , which he cofounded in 1982, he developed a portable dialysis machine, a vascular stent, and the iBOT -- a motorized wheelchair that climbs stairs (Stephen Colbert took one for a spin).,Yes, he's a college dropout, but he's a huge believer in education, and in 1989 established the nonprofit FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) to inspire teenagers to pursue careers in science. FIRST sponsors lively annual competitions, where students form teams to create the best robot.
Elizabeth,Pisani,Sex, drugs and HIV — let's get rational,Author,indonesiaetc.com,,Pisani spent two years travelling 23,000 kilometers by boat, bus and motorbike through Indonesia, a place that has fascinated and maddened her since she first lived there over two decades ago. Her portrait of the country, the recent Indonesia Etc. Exploring the Improbable Nation, reveals the archipelago's complexity and contradictions, a fascinating diversity that is not just geographic and cultural different groups are essentially living at different points in human history, all at the same time.,An alumna of various government health agencies, Pisani became an assumption-busting independent researcher and analyst, polling transgendered sex workers, drug addicts and others to illuminate the surprising (and often ignored) demographics that belie traditional studies.
Jesse,Schell,When games invade real life,Game designer,www.jesseschell.com/,,From his official bio  Prior to starting Schell Games in 2004, Jesse Schell was the Creative Director of the Disney Imagineering Virtual Reality Studio, where he worked and played for seven years as designer, programmer and manager on several projects for Disney theme parks and DisneyQuest, as well as on Toontown Online, the first massively multiplayer game for kids. Schell is also on the faculty of the Entertainment Technology Center at Carnegie Mellon University, where he teaches classes in Game Design and serves as advisor on several innovative projects. Formerly the Chairman of the International Game Developers Association, he is also the author of the award winning book The Art of Game Design A Book of Lenses .,Schell Games' latest endeavor creating a video game based on the box office hit The Mummy .
Adora,Svitak,What adults can learn from kids,Child prodigy,www.adorasvitak.com/,,A voracious reader from age three, Adora Svitak's first serious foray into writing -- at age five -- was limited only by her handwriting and spelling. (Her astonishing verbal abilities already matched that of young adults over twice her age.) As her official bio says , her breakthrough would soon come in the form of a used Dell laptop her mother bought her. At age seven, she typed out over 250,000 words -- poetry, short stories, observations about the world -- in a single year.,Svitak has since fashioned her beyond-her-years wordsmithing into an inspiring campaign for literacy -- speaking across the country to both adults and kids. She is author of Flying Fingers, a book on learning.
Derek,Sivers,How to start a movement,Entrepreneur,https//sivers.org/,,Derek Sivers is best known as the founder of CD Baby. A professional musician since 1987, he started CD Baby by accident in 1998 when he was selling his own CD on his website, and friends asked if he could sell theirs, too. CD Baby was the largest seller of independent music on the web, with over $100M in sales for over 150,000 musician clients. In 2008, Sivers sold CD Baby to focus on his new ventures to benefit musicians , including his new company, MuckWork, where teams of efficient assistants help musicians do their uncreative dirty work.,“Derek Sivers is changing the way music is bought and sold. A musicians' savior. One of the last music-business folk heroes.” — Esquire
Kirk,Citron,And now, the real news,Media expert, KirkCitron.com,,Kirk Citron seems to have an innate understanding of all things media. He began his career in advertising at Ogilvy & Mather in New York, but soon started his own agency with Matt Haligman. Citron Haligman Bedecarré landed major clients and was named Adweek’s West Agency of the Year. Citron then transformed the company into AKQA -- a digital advertising agency that has won awards on both sides of the Atlantic with offices around the world. Today, Citron continues to write and innovate. He is the editor of The Long News , finding news stories that will continue to matter as many as a thousand years from today, and consults for a number of non-profit organizations. He is also the author of the play But Not For Lunch , which has been staged at theaters in Maine, Miami and Pennsylvania.,“Some stories are more important than others.” — Kirk Citron
Shukla,Bose,Teaching one child at a time,Education activist,www.parikrmafoundation.org/,,The word Parikrma implies a full revolution, a complete path around -- and Shukla Bose's Parikrma Humanity Foundation offers literally that to kids in poor urban areas around Bangalore. Parikrma's four Schools of Hope teach the full, standard Indian curriculum to children who might not otherwise see the inside of a classroom , with impressive results. Equally important, the schools build an end-to-end environment that supports learning -- offering lunch every day, health-care and family support. Beyond these schools, Parikrma has inaugurated several afterschool programs and has plans for setting up a central teacher-training hub.,Bose left behind a corporate career in 1992 to found Parikrma with a small group of friends. The nonprofit holds itself to formal business goals and strict accountability , and has developed some clever fundraising and marketing campaigns. As Bose puts it, the goal of Parikrma is to help build a better India by tapping its greatest strength the vitality and potential of its people.
Kevin,Bales,How to combat modern slavery,Anti-slavery activist,www.kevinbales.net/,,As an author, a professor of sociology, and consultant to the United Nations Global Program on Human Trafficking, Kevin Bales is one of the world’s foremost experts on modern slavery . He has made it his mission to eradicate global slavery.,Along with traveling the world doing investigative research, authoring books, racking up human rights awards, and teaming up with Simon Pell to form a fundraising consultant firm, Pell & Bales Ltd., he established Free the Slaves, a nonprofit whose brilliant website is packed with facts and inspirations to action. With Free the Slaves, Bales has mapped out ways to spread the message and gain resources that a ssign governments, the UN, business, communities and individuals specific roles in the fight to end slavery . He’s working on a book about the relationship of slavery and environmental destruction. Armed with a compelling presence and a hopeful heart, he is enticing the world to help, so that we can all one day say the words Mission Accomplished.
Patsy,Rodenburg,Why I do theater,Acting and voice coach,patsyrodenburg.com/,,To be present or not to be present? is the question Patsy Rodenburg would ask all of us, she's trying to bring the highly practical techniques that make actors successful to the rest of us . There's often an inflexible screen between us human beings and the performances we're shoehorned into every day, and we need to tear it out -- establishing a space she calls  the Second Circle  a state of mind and body where confident, relaxed control allows us establish intimacy and human connection where and when we want it. With years behind her already as the eminent proponent of the use of Shakespeare in teaching for the present day (not just for actors, but for public speakers, prison inmates, and the mentally ill, see her book Speaking Shakespeare ), she's also spent years as a voice coach, perhaps Britain's most highly-regarded. The actors on her formidable roster of have-taughts include Judi Dench, Ian McKellen, Daniel Day-Lewis, many other Oscar-nominees and winners, as well as other shining figures of the silver screen and the stage. As a teacher of acting, Rodenburg is known for her emphasis of the primacy of the human voice . In her book The Actor Speaks , she illustrates how solving the frustrating physical challenges of line delivery -- questions as pragmatic as When do I breathe? to more philosophical ones like How to get my message across to other actors? -- can open up new paths to performances which go beyond stage-ready to unforgettable. She currently serves as Director of Voice at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama and teaches voice at Michael Howard Studios in New York City.,“Ms. Rodenburg has been in more rehearsal rooms and trawled more stages than all but the busiest theater animal.” — The New York Times
Robert,Gupta,Music is medicine, music is sanity,Violinist,www.violinist.com/directory/bio.cfm?member=rgupta,,Violinist Robert Vijay Gupta joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic at the age of 19. He made his solo debut, at age 11, with the Israel Philharmonic under Zubin Mehta. He has a Master's in music from Yale. But his undergraduate degree? Pre-med. As an undergrad, Gupta was part of several research projects in neuro- and neurodegenerative biology. He held Research Assistant positions at CUNY Hunter College in New York City, where he worked on spinal cord neuronal regeneration, and at the Harvard Institutes of Medicine Center for Neurologic Diseases, where he studied the biochemical pathology of Parkinson's disease.,Gupta is passionate about education and outreach, both as a musician and as an activist for mental health issues. He has the privilege of working with Nathaniel Ayers, the brilliant, schizophrenic musician featured in The Soloist, as his violin teacher.
Joel,Levine,Why we need to go back to Mars,Planetary and atmospheric scientist,www.okcphilharmonic.org/joel-levine,,Joel S. Levine is a senior research scientist in the Science Mission Directorate at NASA's Langley Research Center, and the principal investigator and chief scientist of the proposed ARES Mars Airplane Mission . ARES (Aerial Regional-scale Environmental Survey) is a robotic, rocket-powered Mars airplane designed to investigate the atmosphere, surface and sub-surface of Mars.,In his research, he studies the atmospheres of Earth and Mars, tracking their development and changes How similar are they? What can Earth learn from Mars?
Alan,Siegel,Let's simplify legal jargon!,Executive, simplicity guru,siegelvision.com/people/alan-siegel/,,Almost nothing so mundane renders as many beads of sweat on the foreheads of the citizens of the United States than the looming of April 15, the day of the dreaded yearly income tax mail-ins. But Alan Siegel says the better portion of that anxiety ain't necessarily the pay hit -- it's navigating the legendarily confusing jungle of jargon (and cluttered checkboxes) that constitutes the IRS's tax forms. It's more than a question of convenience to individuals, he emphasizes, as our society's systems get more complicated, the perplexing legal documents that make them run are becoming more of a drain, undermining our potential prosperity. It's also a problem that's bigger than taxes, it's even bigger than the United States. Siegel, one of the world's foremost branding experts (he's founder and chairman of brand consultancy Siegel+Gale) notes that the world is suffering from an epidemic of legalese fear of loopholes and lawsuits is forcing the world's attorneys, contract designers and EULA scribes to take their art form to historically impenetrable lows.,Better for us, Siegel has spent decades as a pioneer in the practice of simplification -- as he says, bringing clarity to such daunting documents as insurance policies, bank loans, mutual fund agreements and government communications. He hopes to transform the idea of document simplicity from a creative principle into an aggressive movement for change. Siegel was recently director of a project for the IRS to simplify US income tax forms. He has written on the topic for the New York Times , Across the Board , and the National Law Journal .
Juliana,Machado,The fight to end rare-animal trafficking in Brazil,Biologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/juliana_machado_ferreira,,TED Senior Fellow Juliana Machado Ferreira is pursuing her doctorate in Conservation Genetics at the Laboratory of Evolutionary Biology and Vertebrate Conservation (LABEC) at São Paulo University. Her current project involves developing species-specific molecular markers and population genetics studies of four passerine birds, with the aim to understand the distribution of their genetic variability and to track down the origin of birds seized from illegal trade. She works closely with the National Fish and Wildlife Forensics Laboratory, and her ultimate goal is to help set up a Wildlife Forensics Laboratory in Brazil.,Read a Q&A with Juliana on the TED Fellows site >>
Sam,Harris,Science can answer moral questions,Neuroscientist and philosopher, SamHarris.com,,Sam Harris has been identified as one of the Four Horsemen of Atheism -- company he shares with Richard Dawkins, Dan Dennett and Christopher Hitchens. An outspoken proponent of skepticism and science , his two books -- The End of Faith and its follow-up Letter to a Christian Nation -- have become best-sellers. In The End of Faith , Harris showed a harrowing glimpse of mankind’s willingness to suspend reason in favor of religious beliefs, even when these beliefs inspire the worst of human atrocities. After receiving thousands of angry letters in response, he wrote Letter to a Christian Nation , which centered on religious controversies in the United States stem cell research, “intelligent design,” and links between religion and violence. Harris received a degree in philosophy from Stanford and a Ph.D. in neuroscience from UCLA. He is the co-founder and CEO of Project Reason, a nonprofit devoted to spreading scientific knowledge and secular values in society.,“Read Sam Harris and wake up.” — Richard Dawkins
Shekhar,Kapur,We are the stories we tell ourselves,Director and writer,shekharkapur.com,,Golden Globe-winning director Shekhar Kapur makes lush, international period films -- such as Elizabeth and The Four Feathers -- and Indian hits like Mr. India and Bandit Queen . Most recently, Kapur's short film Passages is part of the October 2009 film anthology New York, I Love You . Also this October, he sat on the judging panel for 1 Minute to Save the World, a competition for short films about climate change. (And yes, last summer, he was a judge on India's Got Talent .),His forthcoming film Paani – the hindi word for water – explores mumbai's shrinking supply of water and its distribution underworld. equally at home in hollywood and Bollywood, he's also a comics mogul, in 2006 he co-founded Virgin Comics as a venue for turning Indian and Hindu myths into pop-culture icons. For the company, now reorganized as Liquid Comics, he cocreated the series Ramayan 3392 A.D. , based on the Ramayana. His newest Liquid series Devi .
Ken,Kamler,Medical miracle on Everest,Adventure physician,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_Kamler,,Ken Kamler has practiced medicine in some of the most extreme conditions on Earth -- from the Andes mountains to the Antarctic ice to the Amazon rainforest. Many of his expeditions have been in concert with National Geographic, helping teams to carry out geological research and precision mapping less traveled areas of the world. He has also served as the chief high altitude physician in research by NASA, helping examine the human body’s response to high altitudes. When not on expedition to a remote corner of the globe, Kamler practices microsurgery, specializing in hand reconstruction and finger reattachment . He has also chronicled his adventures in the books Doctor on Everest and Surviving the Extremes A Doctor's Journey to the Limits of Human Endurance . His treatment of the climbers in the largest disaster to happen on Mount Everest was portrayed in the book Into Thin Air and in the IMAX film documentary, Everest . He has been active in promoting the Boy Scouts of America and currently serves as their Founders District Chairman in Queens, NY.,“Medicine is probably the biggest adventure in the world. There are more mysterious forces in the human body than anywhere.” — Ken Kamler
Jane,McGonigal,Gaming can make a better world,Game Designer, janemcgonigal.com,,Jane McGonigal asks Why doesn't the real world work more like an online game? In the best-designed games, our human experience is optimized We have important work to do, we're surrounded by potential collaborators, and we learn quickly and in a low-risk environment. In her work as a game designer, she creates games that use mobile and digital technologies to turn everyday spaces into playing fields, and everyday people into teammates. Her game-world insights can explain--and improve--the way we learn, work, solve problems, and lead our real lives. She served as the director of game R&D at the Institute for the Future , and she is the founder of Gameful , which she describes as a secret headquarters for worldchanging game developers.,Several years ago she suffered a serious concussion, and she created a multiplayer game to get through it, opening it up to anyone to play. In “ Superbetter ,” players set a goal (health or wellness) and invite others to play with them--and to keep them on track. While most games, and most videogames, have traditionally been about winning, we are now seeing increasing collaboration and games played together to solve problems.
Douglas,Adams,Parrots, the universe and everything,Author, satirist,www.douglasadams.com/,,Douglas Adams created Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy . First a radio comedy on the BBC, then expanded in the '70s and '80s into a bestselling series of five novels , Hitchhiker's was recently adapted for the silver screen, bringing the beloved and award-winning story of hapless Arthur Dent (and his encounters with bureaucratic aliens, a depressed robot, and the nonsensical answer to the ultimate question) to a new generation. In addition to his many works of fiction, Adams was also a passionate environmental activist , having campaigned for endangered species through writings such as Last Chance to See , and a climb of Mount Kilimanjaro -- while wearing a rhino suit. He was an avid reader of science, and counted among his friends luminaries such as Richard Dawkins , Stephen Fry and John Lloyd . The Salmon of Doubt , a posthumous collection of his work, was published in 2002.,“Science has lost a friend, literature has lost a luminary, the mountain gorilla and the black rhino have lost a gallant defender.” — Richard Dawkins, on Douglas Adams' passing in 2001
Eric,Dishman,Take health care off the mainframe,Social scientist,www.mayo.edu/people/eric-dishman,,Eric Dishman is an Intel Fellow and general manager of Intel's Health Strategy & Solutions Group. He founded the product research and innovation team responsible for driving Intel’s worldwide healthcare research, new product innovation, strategic planning, and health policy and standards activities.,Dishman is recognized globally for driving healthcare reform through home and community-based technologies and services, with a focus on enabling independent living for seniors. His work has been featured in The New York Times , Washington Post and Businessweek , and The Wall Street Journal named him one of “12 People Who Are Changing Your Retirement.” He has delivered keynotes on independent living for events such as the annual Consumer Electronics Show, the IAHSA International Conference and the National Governors Association. He has published numerous articles on independent living technologies and co-authored government reports on health information technologies and health reform.
Mark,Roth,Suspended animation is within our grasp,Biochemist, cell biologist,labs.fhcrc.org/roth/,,As a cell biologist in cancer research, Mark Roth studies genes, chromosomes and autoimmune disease. But he's best known for his research into suspended animation. Already, Roth has managed a world first putting a vertebrate -- a zebrafish embryo -- into an oxygen-deprived state for several hours, then restoring it to completely normal development. He's been able to reduce the core temperature of mice to 10 degrees Celsius, and then revive them, harmlessly.,This MacArthur genius grant winner may spur the next big leap for lifesaving medical systems with techniques that buy time for critically ill trauma patients -- people in desperate need of organ transplants, for example -- whether in emergency rooms or on battlefields. DARPA is a major supporter of this work. At TED2008, geologist Peter Ward was passionate enough about Mark Roth's work to devote several of his own 18 minutes to talking about it ...
Gary,Vaynerchuk,Do what you love (no excuses!),Entrepreneur,https//www.garyvaynerchuk.com,,Bestselling author and entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk began his career in his family's business, Shopper’s Discount Liquors. He soon rebranded the store as Wine Library, launching a retail website and boosting its revenue from $4 million to $60 million. In 2006 Vaynerchuk launched Wine Library TV , a daily video blog about wine. With the tagline changing the wine world, the show offers an unpretentious approach to a historically stuffy subject . As the audience grew and word spread of his informal and unorthodox approach to wine, Gary made numerous national television appearances and landed a book deal. He's recently launched a new consulting venture, VaynerMedia, which works with personal brands, consumer brands, and startups.,“[Vaynerchuk] ... brings a hyperkinetic style to the normally dry business of judging syrahs and merlots. ” — Slate
Eric,Mead,The magic of the placebo,Magician,www.ericmead.org/,,As a child, Eric Mead says that he had a typical interest in magic. However, by the time he was a teenager, his interest had grown to a full-fledged obsession -- he was getting paid to do birthday parties and banquets in his hometown. He began street performing in 1985 and four years later was offered a job as “Magic Bartender” at the Tower Comedy/Magic Bar owned by John Denver. Working at the bar, as well as private parties and comedy clubs, he became well-known in the industry and went on to perform one of the most memorable pieces in The Aristocrats . Mead is also known as the author of Tangled Web , a collection of magic and mentalism taken from his personal repertoire.,“Here I am having been a professional magician for more than 25 years, and I often feel as if I'm barely scratching the surface of where the art can go and where I might one day take it.” — Eric Mead
Dan,Barber,How I fell in love with a fish,Chef,www.thethirdplate.com/,,Dan Barber is the chef at New York's Blue Hill restaurant, and Blue Hill at Stone Barns in Westchester, where he practices a kind of close-to-the-land cooking married to agriculture and stewardship of the earth. As described on Chez Pim  Stone Barns is only 45 minutes from Manhattan, but it might as well be a whole different universe. A model of self-sufficiency and environmental responsibility, Stone Barns is a working farm, ranch, and a three-Michelin-star-worthy restaurant. It's a vision of a new kind of food chain.,Barber's philosophy of food focuses on pleasure and thoughtful conservation -- on knowing where the food on your plate comes from and the unseen forces that drive what we eat. He's written on US agricultural policies, asking for a new vision that does not throw the food chain out of balance by subsidizing certain crops at the expense of more appropriate ones.
Gary,Lauder's,Take Turns,Venture capitalist,www.lauderpartners.com/,,Gary Lauder is the Managing Partner of Lauder Partners LLC , a Silicon Valley-based venture capital firm investing primarily in information technologies. He has been a venture capitalist since 1985, investing in some 60 private companies. He is also chair of ActiveVideo Networks, a developer of interactive television technology for cable, IPTV and other forms of internet delivery. Other directorships Promptu, MediaFriends and ShotSpotter. Investments are primarily in television/IPTV technology and web arenas.,He is the co-creator of the Aspen Institute's Socrates Society with Laura, his wife. He has had a working cable modem (usually) in his home since 1994. He is co-inventor of 10 patents, has spoken at some 80 industry forums, and, since 1992, has published several articles about the future of the cable industry ... that he still stands by.
Tim,Berners-Lee,The year open data went worldwide,Inventor,w3.org,,In the 1980s, scientists at CERN were asking themselves how massive, complex, collaborative projects -- like the fledgling LHC -- could be orchestrated and tracked. Tim Berners-Lee, then a contractor, answered by inventing the World Wide Web. This global system of hypertext documents, linked through the Internet, brought about a massive cultural shift ushered in by the new tech and content it made possible AOL, eBay, Wikipedia, TED.com...,Berners-Lee is now director of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), which maintains standards for the Web and continues to refine its design. Recently he has envisioned a Semantic Web -- an evolved version of the same system that recognizes the meaning of the information it carries. He's the 3Com Founders Professor of Engineering in the School of Engineering with a joint appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Laboratory for Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (CSAIL) at the MIT, where he also heads the Decentralized Information Group (DIG). He is also a Professor in the Electronics and Computer Science Department at the University of Southampton, UK.
Srikumar,Rao,Plug into your hard-wired happiness,Happiness teacher,theraoinstitute.com/,,Srikumar Rao was an executive at Warner Communications and McGraw-Hill before he created his celebrated MBA course, Creativity and Personal Mastery. The course -- the only business school course that has its own alumni association -- shows students how to discover their unique purpose , creativity and happiness, through group work and a philosophical perspective. Its popularity has led to write-ups in The New York Times , The Wall Street Journal and Business Week . Rao is also an adviser to senior business executives, whom he helps find deeper meaning and engagement in their work. He's the author of Are You Ready to Succeed Unconventional Strategies for Achieving Personal Mastery in Business and Life , and has been a contributing editor for Forbes . His latest book is titled Happiness at Work Be Resilient, Motivated, and Successful - No Matter What .,“[Creativity and Personal Mastery] is a forum for self-exploration, meant to help future business leaders define their personal ethics and goals.” — The New York Times
The,LXD,In the Internet age, dance evolves ...,Dance adventurers,thelxd.com,,Imagine two rival factions -- one good, one evil -- squaring off in an epic battle ... an epic dance battle. Welcome to The LXD, a new online adventure in which heroes and villains combat each other with dance superpowers. With stunning choreography, dancers float over the ground like marionettes or crush the laws of physics beneath their feet when they perform breathtaking aerial maneuvers and transcendental step sequences.,The series hopes to do more than follow the dance-battle zeitgeist that rules today’s TV ratings. In addition to live performances, The LXD reveals dance superheroes on both sides of the screen—viewers can learn dance moves from instructional videos, and even become part of the story by participating in the web community. The LXD is written and directed by Jon Chu, a veteran of dance productions, including the box office sensation Step Up 2 The Streets and the Internet phenomenon, The Biggest Online Dance Battle .
James,Cameron,Before Avatar ... a curious boy,Director,www.imdb.com/name/nm0000116/,,James Cameron has written and directed some of the largest blockbuster movies of the last 20 years , including The Terminator, Aliens, The Abyss, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Titanic, and Avatar . His films pushed the limits of special effects, and his fascination with technical developments led him to co-create the 3-D Fusion Camera System. He has also contributed to new techniques in underwater filming and remote vehicle technology. Although now a major filmmaker, Cameron's first job was as a truck driver and he wrote only in his spare time. After seeing Star Wars , he quit that job and wrote his first science fiction script for a ten-minute short called Xenogenesis. Soon after, he began working with special effects, and by 1984 he had written and directed the movie that would change his life -- The Terminator. Today, he has received three Academy Awards, two honorary doctorates and sits on the NASA Advisory Council.,Read more about Cameron's planned trip to the Challenger Deep, the deepest point yet reached in the ocean »
Richard,Feynman,Physics is fun to imagine,Physicist,www.feynman.com/,,Richard Feynman began his career at a crossroads in history, assisting the Manhattan Project with the development of the atomic bomb. Soon he was producing breakthrough understandings of particle physics and quantum mechanics , for which he won the Nobel Prize in 1965. His pictorial representations of the actions of subatomic particles are still widely used today (they're now called Feynman diagrams).,Feynman acted as an adviser on the commission investigating the space shuttle Challenger disaster. Books based on his lectures and conversations became best-sellers, and cemented him in the public mind as an explainer of science. He was a legendary prankster, a charismatic free-thinker and an avid bongoist.
Gary,Flake,Is Pivot a turning point for web exploration?,Technologist,getpivot.com,,Gary Flake is a Technical Fellow at Microsoft, where he focuses on Internet products and technologies including search, advertising, content, portals, community and application development. In this capacity, he helps define and evolve Microsoft's product vision, technical architecture and business strategy for online services. He is also the founder and director of Live Labs, a skunkworks that bridges research and development, and is widely recognized for inventing new best practices for catalyzing and managing innovation. Prior to joining Microsoft, Flake founded Yahoo! Research Labs, ran Yahoo!'s corporate R&D activities and company-wide innovation effort, and was the Chief Science Officer of Overture, the company that invented the paid search business model. Flake also wrote the award-winning book The Computational Beauty of Nature , which is used in college courses worldwide.,
Harsha,Bhogle,The rise of cricket, the rise of India,Cricket commentator,indianexpress.com/columnist/harshabhogle,,IIM-A alum and former Rediffusion ad man Harsha Bhogle has been called “the voice of Indian cricket” -- he's India's premier cricket commentator and columnist. Beloved for his insightful patter, he writes a weekly cricket column for Indian Express and interviews top cricketers on ESPNStar's Harsha UnPlugged .,He's been the front man for ESPNStar cricket telecasts from the day they launched in India. Now he has taken to the corporate lecture circuit with his wife and business partner, Anita, applying the wisdom of the game to help companies develop compelling business strategies.
Daniel,Kahneman,The riddle of experience vs. memory,Behavioral economics founder,kahneman.socialpsychology.org/,,Daniel Kahneman is an eminence grise for the Freakonomics crowd. In the mid-1970s, with his collaborator Amos Tversky, he was among the first academics to pick apart exactly why we make wrong decisions . In their 1979 paper on prospect theory, Kahneman and Tversky examined a simple problem of economic risk. And rather than stating the optimal, rational answer, as an economist of the time might have, they quantified how most real people, consistently, make a less-rational choice. Their work treated economics not as a perfect or self-correcting machine, but as a system prey to quirks of human perception. The field of behavioral economics was born. Kahneman was awarded the Nobel Memorial prize in 2002 for his work with Tversky, who died before the award was bestowed. In a lovely passage in his Nobel biography, Kahneman looks back on his deep collaboration with Tversky and calls for a new form of academic cooperation, marked not by turf battles but by adversarial collaboration, a good-faith effort by unlike minds to conduct joint research, critiquing each other in the service of an ideal of truth to which both can contribute.,“Amos and I shared the wonder of together owning a goose that could lay golden eggs -- a joint mind that was better than our separate minds.” — Daniel Kahneman
Bobby,McFerrin,Watch me play ... the audience!,Musician,bobbymcferrin.com/,,Bobby McFerrin is one of the world's best-known vocal innovators and improvisers , a world-renowned classical conductor and a passionate spokesman for music education. His recordings have sold more than 20 million copies (including the sunny classic, Don't Worry, Be Happy), and his collaborations including those with with Yo-Yo Ma, Chick Corea, the Vienna Philharmonic and Herbie Hancock have established him as an ambassador of both the classical and jazz worlds. McFerrin has worked with such orchestras as the New York Philharmonic, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Vienna Philharmonic.,“McFerrin has juiced up appreciation for the classics immeasurably. He's a natural-born teacher. The performing arts need him.” — The Mercury News
Raghava,KK,My 5 lives as an artist,Artist,raghavakk.com,,Raghava KK began his career in art as a newspaper cartoonist, and the cartoonist’s bold line -- and dead-on eye for truth -- still powers his art. His work spans painting, sculpture, installation, film and iPad art, always linked by his challenging opinions on identity, conformity, gender, celebrity, ceremony. (He even views his lavish Indian wedding as a piece of performance art.),His early work as a painter made a complete break with his cartoon career -- he painted watercolors on canvas using only his hands and feet. Since then, his work has grown to knit together aesthetics from both worlds, as collage and complication play against flat color and precise lines. He shows in galleries and performance spaces around the world and often collaborates with other artists, most recently with musicians Paul Simon and Erykah Badu. In 2011, he launched his children's iPad book, Pop-it , shaking up the concept of an ideal family. He is currently working on a project that promises to shake up everything! From news to education.
Pawan,Sinha,How brains learn to see,Visual neuroscientist,www.paavanchintandhara.com/,,At Pawan Sinha's MIT lab, he and his team spend their days trying to understand how the brain learns to recognize and use the patterns and scenes we see around us. To do this, they often use computers to model the processes of the human brain, but they also study human subjects, some of whom are seeing the world for the very first time and can tell them about the experience as it happens. They find these unusual subjects through the humanitarian branch of their research, Project Prakash.,Project Prakash sets up eye-care camps in some of the most habitually underserved regions of India, and gives free eye-health screenings to, since 2003, more than 700 functionally blind children. The children are then treated without charge, even if they do not fit the profile that would make them eligible for Sinha's research.
Temple,Grandin,The world needs all kinds of minds,Livestock handling designer, autism activist,grandin.com,,An expert on animal behavior, Temple Grandin has designed humane handling systems for half the cattle-processing facilities in the US, and consults with the meat industry to develop animal welfare guidelines. As PETA wrote when awarding her a 2004 Proggy “Dr. Grandin's improvements to animal-handling systems found in slaughterhouses have decreased the amount of fear and pain that animals experience in their final hours, and she is widely considered the world's leading expert on the welfare of cattle and pigs.” In 2010, Time Magazine listed her as one of its most Important People of the Year.,Grandin’s books about her interior life as an autistic person have increased the world's understanding of the condition with personal immediacy -- and with import, as rates of autism diagnosis rise. She is revered by animal rights groups and members of autistic community, perhaps because in both regards she is a voice for those who are sometimes challenged to make themselves heard.
Eric,Topol,The wireless future of medicine,Cardiologist and geneticist,www.scripps.edu › Research,,As director of the Scripps Translational Science Institute in La Jolla, California, Eric Topol uses the study of genomics to propel game-changing medical research. The Institute combines clinical investigation with scientific theory, training physicians and scientists for research-based careers. He also serves on the board of the West Wireless Health Institute, discovering how wireless technology can change the future of health care. In his early career, Topol was credited with leading the cardiovascular program at Cleveland Clinic to the topmost position in the US. He also was the first physician researcher to raise questions about the safety of Vioxx, has been elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and was named Doctor of the Decade by the Institute for Scientific Information.,
Philip,K.,Four ways to fix a broken legal system,Legal activist,philipkhoward.com,,We love to laugh at America’s warning-label culture (the bag of airline peanuts that says Caution Contains Nuts). But more troubling are the everyday acts of silence and loss promoted by the fear of being sued. Your doctor might not speak to you frankly, your kids’ principal might not feel he has the right to remove bad teachers.,Attorney Philip K. Howard founded the nonpartisan group Common Good to combat this culture and reform several key areas of our legal system. Among Common Good’s suggestions specialized health care courts, which would give lower but smarter awards, and a project with the NYC Board of Ed and the Teachers Union to overhaul the disciplinary system in New York public schools. His new book is The Rule of Nobody Saving America from Dead Laws and Broken Government .
Kevin,Kelly,Technology's epic story,Digital visionary,kk.org/,,Perhaps there is no one better to contemplate the meaning of cultural change -- bad? good? too slow? too bold? -- than Kevin Kelly, whose life story reads like a treatise on the value of technology . Whether by renouncing all material things save his bicycle (which he then rode 3,000 miles), founding an organization (the All-Species Foundation) to catalog all life on earth, or by touting new gadgets in WIRED, Kelly hasn't stopped exploring the phenomena of technical and biological creation. In articles for the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, among others, he has celebrated scientific breakthroughs, and at the Long Now Foundation , where he serves on the board, he champions projects that look 10,000 years into the future. One such project is the Rosetta Project, which will catalogue more than 1,000 languages on a disks to be placed nearby the 10,000 Year Clock. Kelly's newest book What Technology Wants asks what appears to be his life's core question How should I think about new technology when it comes along?,Kelly discusses the 7th Kingdom at length in the July 18, 2007, edition of Edge.org.
Bill,Gates,Innovating to zero!,Philanthropist,gatesfoundation.org,,Bill Gates is the founder and former CEO of Microsoft. A geek icon, tech visionary and business trailblazer, Gates' leadership -- fueled by his long-held dream that millions might realize their potential through great software -- made Microsoft a personal computing powerhouse and a trendsetter in the Internet dawn. Whether you're a suit, chef, quant, artist, media maven, nurse or gamer, you've probably used a Microsoft product today. In summer of 2008, Gates left his day-to-day role with Microsoft to focus on philanthropy. Holding that all lives have equal value (no matter where they're being lived) , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has now donated staggering sums to HIV/AIDS programs, libraries, agriculture research and disaster relief -- and offered vital guidance and creative funding to programs in global health and education. Gates believes his tech-centric strategy for giving will prove the killer app of planet Earth's next big upgrade.,Read a collection of Bill and Melinda Gates' annual letters , where they take stock of the Gates Foundation and the world. And follow his ongoing thinking on his personal website, The Gates Notes . His new paper, The Next Epidemic, is published by the New England Journal of Medicine.
Aimee,Mullins,The opportunity of adversity,Athlete and actor,www.aimeemullins.com,,Aimee Mullins was born without fibular bones, and had both of her legs amputated below the knee when she was an infant. She learned to walk on prosthetics, then to run -- competing at the national and international level as a champion sprinter, and setting world records at the 1996 Paralympics in Atlanta. At Georgetown, where she double-majored in history and diplomacy, she became the first double amputee to compete in NCAA Division 1 track and field.,After school, Mullins did some modeling -- including a legendary runway show for Alexander McQueen -- and then turned to acting, appearing as the Leopard Queen in Matthew Barney's Cremaster Cycle. In 2008 she was the official Ambassador for the Tribeca/ESPN Sports Film Festival.
David,Cameron,The next age of government,Politician, number10.gov.uk,,David Cameron became the prime minster of the United Kingdom in May 2010, leading a coalition government (the UK's first since World War II). He was elected leader of the Conservative Party in December 2005, and has been a Member of Parliament for the Witney constituency since 2001. Before he became an MP, he was a Special Adviser to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and then to the Home Secretary. He took a break to work in media for seven years, then stood for election in 2001 on an agenda of tax-cutting. (During the election, he also wrote a column for the Guardian .) As a new MP, he took several controversial positions, such as coming out in favor of the harm reduction drug policy. He became a member of the shadow cabinet (an alternative cabinet to the party in power) in 2003, and two years later became head of the party.,
Blaise,Agüera,Augmented-reality maps,Software architect,https//photosynth.net/discussion.aspx?cat...82d8.,,Blaise Aguera y Arcas' background is as multidimensional as the visions he helps create. In the 1990s, he authored patents on both video compression and 3D visualization techniques, and in 2001, he made an influential computational discovery that cast doubt on Gutenberg's role as the father of movable type.,He also created Seadragon (acquired by Microsoft in 2006), the visualization technology that gives Photosynth its amazingly smooth digital rendering and zoom capabilities. Photosynth itself is a vastly powerful piece of software capable of taking a wide variety of images, analyzing them for similarities, and grafting them together into an interactive three-dimensional space. This seamless patchwork of images can be viewed via multiple angles and magnifications, allowing us to look around corners or “fly” in for a (much) closer look. Simply put, it could utterly transform the way we experience digital images.
Jamie,Oliver,Teach every child about food,Chef, activist,jamieoliver.com,,Jamie Oliver has been drawn to the kitchen since he was a child working in his father's pub-restaurant. He showed not only a precocious culinary talent but also a passion for creating (and talking about) fresh, honest, delicious food. In the past decade, the shaggy-haired Naked Chef of late-'90s BBC2 has built a worldwide media conglomerate of TV shows, books, cookware and magazines, all based on a formula of simple, unpretentious food that invites everyone to get busy in the kitchen. And as much as his cooking is generous, so is his business model -- his Fifteen Foundation, for instance, trains young chefs from challenged backgrounds to run four of his restaurants.,Now, Oliver is using his fame and charm to bring attention to the changes that Brits and Americans need to make in their lifestyles and diet. Campaigns such as Jamie's School Dinner, Ministry of Food and Food Revolution USA combine Oliver’s culinary tools, cookbooks and television, with serious activism and community organizing -- to create change on both the individual and governmental level.
Peter,Eigen,How to expose the corrupt,Founder, Transparency International,www.transparency.org/.../20130124_transpar.,,From the website of Transparency International comes this elegant definition  What is corruption? Corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. It hurts everyone whose life, livelihood or happiness depends on the integrity of people in a position of authority.,Peter Eigen knows this. He worked in economic development for 25 years, mainly as a World Bank manager of programs in Africa and Latin America. Among his assignments, he served as director of the regional mission for Eastern Africa from 1988 to 1991. Stunned by the depth and pervasiveness -- and sheer destructiveness -- of the corruption he encountered, he formed the group Transparency International to take on some of the main players in deals with corrupt officials multinational corporations.
Tom,Shannon,,The painter and the pendulum,Sculptor,www.tomshannon.com/,,Artist and inventor Tom Shannon's sculpture has been exhibited in galleries and institutions all around the world, including the Centre Pompidou in Paris, the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam and the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. His clever orchestrations of hidden magnets and tiny suspension cables make otherwise inert materials such as steel and wood take on a truly otherworldly quality -- bringing objects like planets, stars and atoms to a scale you can understand (and touch). Shannon also holds the patents for the first tactile telephone, a color television projector and a synchronous world clock that is in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. He is developing a spherical helium airship whose entire surface is an LED video screen.,“Tom Shannon's visually perplexing sculptures and installations allude to unseen forces better known to physics -- and to Star Trek fans -- than to conventional art.” — Art in America
David,Agus,A new strategy in the war on cancer,Cancer Doctor, Navigenics.com,,David Agus is a medical doctor and a Professor of Medicine at the University of Southern California. However, he is also the founder of a couple of game-changing medical initiatives. In 2006, he co-founded Navigenics with Dietrich Stephan, Ph.D., to form a company that would provide people with their individual genetic information, allowing them to act on any predispositions to disease that they might have and prevent onset. He also founded Oncology.com which was the largest cancer Internet resource and community. Dr. Agus’ research is focused on the application of proteomics and genomics in the study of cancer, as well as developing new therapeutic treatments for cancer. He serves as Director of the USC Center for Applied Molecular Medicine and the USC Westside Prostate Cancer Center. Agus is also the recipient of several honors and awards, including the American Cancer Society Physician Research Award, a Clinical Scholar Award from the Sloan-Kettering Institute and the International Myeloma Foundation Visionary Science Award.,“I believe in educating the next generation about science and medicine. We need new human capital to fight disease.” — Dr. David Agus
George,Whitesides,A lab the size of a postage stamp,Chemist,gmwgroup.harvard.edu/,,Someday Harvard chemistry professor George Whitesides will take the time to look back on the 950 scientific articles he's coauthored, the dozen companies he's co-founded or the 50-plus patents on which he's named. (He works in four main areas biochemistry, materials science, catalysis and physical organic chemistry.) In the meantime, he's trying to invent a future where medical diagnosis can be done by anyone for little or no cost . He's co-founded a nonprofit called Diagnostics for All that aims to provide dirt-cheap diagnostic devices, to provide healthcare in a world where cost is everything. Among his solutions is a low-cost lab-on-a-chip , made of paper and carpet tape. The paper wicks bodily fluids -- urine, for example -- and turns color to provide diagnostic information, such as how much glucose or protein is present. His goal is to distribute these simple paper diagnostic systems to developing countries, where people with basic training can administer tests and send results to distant doctors via cameraphone.,“Most of the world is self-assembly. We are self-assembled systems.” — George Whitesides
Jamie,Heywood,The big idea my brother inspired,Healthcare revolutionary, PatientsLikeMe.com,,After finding out that his brother, Stephen, had the terminal illness ALS, Jamie Haywood founded the ALS Therapy Development Institute in 1999. ALS TDI is the world’s first non-profit biotechnology company and accelerated research on the disease by hiring scientists to develop treatments outside of academia and for-profit corporations. They were the first to publish research on the safety of using stem cells in ALS patients.,In 2005,Jamie and his youngest brother Ben, along with close friend Jeff Cole, built PatientsLikeMe.com to give patients control and access to their healthcare information and compare it to others like them. Its bold (and somewhat controversial) approach involves aggregating users health info in order to test the effects of particular treatments, bypassing clinical trials. It was named one of 15 companies that will change the world by CNN Money. Although his brother passed away in the fall of 2006, Jamie continues to serve as chairman of PatientsLikeMe and on the board of directors of ALS TDI. Jamie has raised over $50 million dollars for ALS TDI and was the subject of the biography His Brother’s Keeper , written by Jonathan Weiner. He was also featured in the documentary So Much So Fast , exploring the development of ALS TDI and the personal story of he and Stephen.
Sendhil,Mullainathan,Solving social problems with a nudge,Behavioral economist,www.povertyactionlab.org/mulla,,To study big questions such as What are the measurable effects of corruption? Sendhil Mullainathan and his collaborators look at the day-to-day decisions made by real people, running deep-data studies on groups around the world to tease out patterns. Awarded a MacArthur genius grant in 2002, he has produced and collaborated on a string of research papers that make for a must-read CV -- including a fascinating, if dispiriting, study of the corruption involved in getting a driver's license in India.,Lately he and his team have been studying women who sell fruit and vegetables on the streets in developing countries. They're usually in debt to a moneylender in the market, who takes about half their profits each day as interest. Some of the women have figured a simple way to get out of debt and keep all their profits. But most of the women make a choice every day that keeps them in debt. How would these businesswomen behave, he wondered, if the slate was wiped clean? So he got a grant, paid off their debt, and waits to see what happens next.
JK,Rowling,The fringe benefits of failure,Author,www.jkrowling.com,,A single mother who battled poverty and depression as she struggled to launch her writing career, Joanne JK Rowling was to become perhaps the most famous contemporary fiction writer in the world , with her Harry Potter series of children's books -- a chronicle of the adventures of an adolescent wizard of the same name. The fourth volume of the series, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire , was the fastest-selling book in history. Since completing the series, Rowling has put her fortune toward philanthropic projects dealing with poverty, multiple sclerosis and other issues through her own Volant Charitable Trust.,“I'd give a lot to know how many teenagers (and preteens) texted this message in the days following the last book's release DON'T CALL ME TODAY I'M READING.” — Stephen King
Derek,Sivers,Weird, or just different?,Entrepreneur,https//sivers.org/,,Derek Sivers is best known as the founder of CD Baby. A professional musician since 1987, he started CD Baby by accident in 1998 when he was selling his own CD on his website, and friends asked if he could sell theirs, too. CD Baby was the largest seller of independent music on the web, with over $100M in sales for over 150,000 musician clients. In 2008, Sivers sold CD Baby to focus on his new ventures to benefit musicians , including his new company, MuckWork, where teams of efficient assistants help musicians do their uncreative dirty work.,“Derek Sivers is changing the way music is bought and sold. A musicians' savior. One of the last music-business folk heroes.” — Esquire
Jane,Chen,A warm embrace that saves lives,Social entrepreneur,embraceglobal.org/who-we-are/,,Jane Chen is the co-founder and CEO of Embrace, a social enterprise that aims to help the millions of vulnerable babies born every year in developing countries through a low-cost infant warmer. Unlike traditional incubators that cost up to $20,000, the Embrace infant warmer costs around $200. The device requires no electricity, has no moving parts, is portable and is safe and intuitive to use. Chen received her Masters in Public Administration from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Prior to her graduate studies, Jane was the Program Director of Chi Heng Foundation, a nonprofit organization that sponsors the education of children affected by AIDS in central China. She was also formerly a management consultant at Monitor Group.,In 2009, Chen was a TEDIndia Fellow .
Eve,Ensler,Embrace your inner girl,Playwright, activist,www.eveensler.org/,,Inspired by intimate conversations with friends, Eve Ensler wrote The Vagina Monologues . The play recounts tender, funny, gripping and horrifying stories she gathered from hundreds of women about their bodies, their sexual experiences, and yes, their vaginas. Since its first staging in 1996, it has been translated into more than 45 languages, performed in more than 120 countries and re-created as an HBO film. The Vagina Monologues ' success allowed Ensler to create V-Day , a global activist movement to end violence against women and girls, which has so far raised $85 million to prevent violence and protect abused women. In February 2011, Ensler received the Isabelle Stephenson Tony Award for her philanthropic work. Ensler has also drawn praise for The Good Body , a play that cuts to women's obsession with their appearance, and her film What I Want My Words to Do to You , which portrays a writing group she leads at a correctional facility for women. Today, she continues to find new projects and push the envelope. Her latest play, I Am an Emotional Creature The Secret Life of Girls Around the World , hit the New York Times bestseller list and just wrapped a workshop production in Johannesburg -- nest stop is Paris and then Berkeley in June 2012.,“Eve is bringing women back, she's giving us our souls back.” — Glenn Close
Joshua,Prince-Ramus,Building a theater that remakes itself,Architect,www.rex-ny.com/,,“Joshua Prince-Ramus isn't just creating buildings. In a field obsessed with celebrity, he’s putting the work -- and his workers -- first.” — Fast Company,
Bill,Davenhall,Your health depends on where you live,Health and human services expert,www.esri.com › Industries,,Bill Davenhall has spent three decades creating useful intelligence out of what seems ordinary demographic and geographic data . In the '70s he built the first geo-demographic models that helped some of America’s most well-known franchises expand across the nation, in the '80s he founded a start-up market research company that developed the first national database of estimates for the demand of healthcare services. Davenhall leads the health and human services marketing team at ESRI, the largest geographic information system (GIS) software developer in the world.,“Geography is destiny in medicine.” — Jack Lord, MD
Taylor,Mali,What teachers make,Slam poet,www.taylormali.com/,,From his official bio  Eloquent, accessible, passionate and often downright hilarious , poet Taylor Mali studied drama in Oxford with members of The Royal Shakespeare Company and puts those skills of presentation to work in all his performances. He was one of the original poets to appear on the HBO series Russell Simmons Presents Def Poetry .  Mali is a vocal advocate of teachers and the nobility of teaching , having himself spent nine years in the classroom teaching English, history, math and SAT test preparation. He has performed and lectured for teachers all over the world, and his New Teacher Project has a goal of creating 1,000 new teachers through 'poetry, persuasion and perseverance.' Mali is the author of two books of poetry, The Last Time As We Are , and What Learning Leaves , and four CDs of spoken word.,“Taylor Mali is a ranting comic showman and literary provocateur ...” — The New York Times
Richard,Dawkins,Growing up in the universe,Evolutionary biologist, RichardDawkins.net,,As an evolutionary biologist, Richard Dawkins has broadened our understanding of the genetic origin of our species, as a popular author, he has helped lay readers understand complex scientific concepts. He's best-known for the ideas laid out in his landmark book The Selfish Gene and fleshed out in The Extended Phenotype  the rather radical notion that Darwinian selection happens not at the level of the individual, but at the level of our DNA . The implication We evolved for only one purpose — to serve our genes. Of perhaps equal importance is Dawkins' concept of the meme , which he defines as a self-replicating unit of culture -- an idea, a chain letter, a catchy tune, an urban legend -- which is passed person-to-person, its longevity based on its ability to lodge in the brain and inspire transmission to others. Introduced in The Selfish Gene in 1976, the concept of memes has itself proven highly contagious, inspiring countless accounts and explanations of idea propagation in the information age. In recent years, Dawkins has become outspoken in his atheism , coining the word bright (as an alternate to atheist), and encouraging fellow non-believers to stand up and be identified. His controversial, confrontational 2002 TED talk was a seminal moment for the New Atheism, as was the publication of his 2006 book, The God Delusion , a bestselling critique of religion that championed atheism and promoted scientific principles over creationism and intelligent design.,“Dawkins ... is a master of scientific exposition and synthesis. When it comes to his own specialty, evolutionary biology, there is none better.” — Jim Holt, The New York Times
Sivamani,,Rhythm is everything, everywhere,Percussionist, sivamani.in,,Anandan Sivamani, known to his fans as just Sivamani, is an electrifying performer and one of the leading drummers of India. His work blends classical drumming styles -- he studied with Carnatic master S.P. Balasubramaniam -- with jazz and world beats to create a propulsive sound that pulls in many instruments and traditions.,As a child, he says, he drummed on pots and pans in the kitchen, and that exuberance seems never to have left him -- he's an enthusiastic ambassador for the drum around india and the globe, and a frequent collaborator. A few notable matchups Youssou N'Dour, tabla player Zakir Hussain, flutist Hariprasad Chaurasia, percussionist Elvin Jones, and A.R. Rahman, composer of Bombay Dreams . Last winter, he released his first solo album, Mahaleela , playing with a rotating team of singers and bandmates on a roster of songs he composed.
Anthony,Atala,Growing new organs,Surgeon,www.wakehealth.edu/.../Anthony-At...,,Anthony Atala is the director of the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine, where his work focuses on growing and regenerating tissues and organs . His team engineered the first lab-grown organ to be implanted into a human -- a bladder -- and is developing experimental fabrication technology that can print human tissue on demand. In 2007, Atala and a team of Harvard University researchers showed that stem cells can be harvested from the amniotic fluid of pregnant women. This and other breakthroughs in the development of smart bio-materials and tissue fabrication technology promises to revolutionize the practice of medicine.,“Anthony Atala bakes things that will make you feel good inside, but we're not talking cakes and muffins.” — PBS
Ravin,Agrawal,10 young Indian artists to watch,Investor,ttps//angel.co/rra,,Ravin Agrawal has drawn on his time in the US and India to bring the best of each world to the other. Born in New Jersey, he grew up between Louisiana and Kolkata before entering Harvard Business School. Agrawal began his career as a business consultant for McKinsey & Co., helping global banks navigate the opportunities of Internet commerce. Since then, he has served as the managing director of Passport India Fund and Quantum India Fund, and today is the managing member of Corellian Capital in the San Francisco Bay area.,“Our hope is for them to become substantial, large, sustainable businesses and for us to achieve a significant return on our risk and investment.” — Ravin Agrawal
David,Blaine,How I held my breath for 17 minutes,Illusionist, endurance artist,davidblaine.com/,,Called a modern-day Houdini by The New York Times , David Blaine made himself a household name with TV special David Blaine Street Magic -- shedding the sweeping glitz and drama of other TV magic programs in favor of a simple premise illusions done right on the street , in front of handheld cameras and speechless passersby. With Buried Alive , Blaine was entombed underground for seven days in a transparent plastic coffin, visible to gawking pedestrians above, setting off a new trend in his performance career the endurance stunt . The pursuit led to other spectacles featuring cramped spaces and extreme conditions Frozen in Time , which saw him encased in a block of ice for almost three days, and Vertigo , where he stood atop a 100-foot pillar for 35 hours. Blaine's stunts continue to draw immense crowds and Nielsen ratings to match, but his appearance on Oprah was perhaps most stunning, when he broke the Guinness world record for breath-holding, staying underwater for 17 minutes and 4.5 seconds.,“His deceptively low-key, ultracool manner leaves spectators more amazed than if he'd razzle-dazzled.” — Time Magazine
Charles,Fleischer,All things are Moleeds,Comedian, voice artist, MonkeyDog.com,,Stand-up comedian and voice artist Charles Fleischer hit his stride in the '80s with voice roles in the live action-animation hybrid Who Framed Roger Rabbit? , building a prolific career of roles in cartoons and feature films in the decades since. But perhaps he found his true calling in more recent years, discovering an interesting relationship between the numbers 27 and 37, which (he tells us) affect everything, as he says, from protons to neutrons to croutons. This blueprint for infinity is called Moleeds, and he explains it in detail on his website, MonkeyDog .,Currently, he runs a media company in Southern California, and contributes writing to television and film.
Edwidge,Danticat,Stories of Haiti,Author,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edwidge_Danticat,,Born in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Edwidge Danticat immigrated to the United States at 12, publishing her first short story in a youth magazine only two years later. Spending her teenage years in a Haitian neighborhood in Brooklyn, Danticat was able to capture the isolation and memories of her experience with authentic eloquence in her first novel, Breath, Eyes, Memory , which was selected for Oprah’s Book Club. Danticat has continued to share the stories of her past in the novels Krik? Krak! , The Farming of Bones , The Dew Breaker , and Brother, I'm Dying . She has taught creative writing at New York University and the University of Miami, and is a recipient of the prestigious MacArthur Genius Grant.,“We all have our traditions, which have both positive and negative repercussions. It all depends on how we integrate them in our lives and whether they serve us or hold us back.” — Edwidge Danticat
Lalitesh,Katragadda,Making maps to fight disaster, build economies,Engineer,https//www.ted.com/speakers/lalitesh_katragadda,,Lalitesh Katragadda is a software engineer at Google, working on geo-data, machine vision, machine learning and space robotics. Before joining Google, Lalitesh founded a robotics startup that was acquired by Google. At Google, Lalitesh co-founded Google India and was its founding Joint Center Head for two years. He co-started several projects including Google Finance and Hindi Transliteration, and is now working on maps.,
Kiran,Sethi,Kids, take charge,Educator, schoolriverside.com,,Kiran Bir Sethi's early training as a designer is clear in her work as an educator -- she looks beyond what exists, to ask, could we do this a better way? In 2001, she founded the Riverside School in Ahmedabad, designing the primary school's curriculum (and its building) from the ground up. Based around six Beacons of Learning, the school's lesson plan focuses on creating curious, competent future citizens. The school now enrolls almost 300 children and has franchised its curriculum widely.,Sethi's latest project, inspired by dialogue with the children of Riverside, is called AProCh -- which stands for A Protagonist in every Child. Fighting the stereotype of modern kids as rude and delinquent, AProCh looks for ways to engage Ahmedabad's children in modern city life, and to revamp our cities to make room for kids to learn, both actively and by example.
Kartick,Satyanarayan,How we rescued the dancing bears,Wildlife conservationist, WildlifeSOS.org,,Known by many in India as the “Bear Man,” Kartick Satyanaran is the co-founder of Wildlife SOS -- a non-profit wildlife conservation organization famous for its campaign to rescue every “dancing” bear in the country. For many years, “dancing” sloth bears were the only livelihood of the Kalandar community, but the practice involves extreme cruelty by modern standards, endangers the bear population and is illegal today. He began the organization with his aunt and fellow animal rights champion Geeta Seshamani in 1995, and since then they have rescued over 550 bears. Satyanaran began rescuing animals as a child, with a particular tendency to rescue snakes. Although he majored in business management in college, he returned to his early love of animal as a field assistant tracking tigers for the Wildlife Conservation Society. Now, through Wildlife SOS, he runs rescue and rehabilitation centers for India’s sloth bears, elephants, leopards and more, as well as several conservation and forest watch projects.,“Although we are proud of the life we can offer our rescued bears, in the sanctuary, we would prefer that there would not be a need for these sanctuaries and the bears could live unharmed in the wild.” — Kartick Satyanarayan
Matt,Weinstein,What Bernie Madoff couldn't steal from me,Motivational speaker,www.playfair.com/who/matt.htm,,One corporation at a time, Matt Weinstein and team at his firm Playfair are coaching ahead the collaborative revolution in business. Leading customized keynotes and workshops with infectious enthusiasm and humor , Weinstein aims to teach the workforce -- from top-paid executives to first-year employees -- to learn to manage stress, build effective teams and improvise innovation. The organization also brings workshops to college campuses. Weinstein was elected to the Professional Speaker's Hall of Fame by the National Speaker's Association, and was honored by Successful Meetings Magazine as one of the 21 Top Speakers for the 21st Century. His TV special Fun Works! was broadcast nationally on PBS. His book, Dogs Don't Bite When A Growl Will Do was bestseller on the What CEOs Are Reading list. Weinsein's best known book is Managing To Have Fun . His latest is Gently Down The Stream Four Unforgettable Keys To Success .,“Some genuine wealth in our lives is always created when we reach out to each other, when we make connections with each other, when we form a community together in times of crisis.” — Matt Weinstein
Robert,Sapolsky,The uniqueness of humans,Neuroscientist, primatologist, writer,https//med.stanford.edu/.../rober...,,We all have some measure of stress, and Robert Sapolsky explores its causes as well as its effects on our bodies (his lab was among the first to document the damage that stress can do to our hippocampus). Every year, he goes to Kenya to visit a population of wild baboons, who experience stress very similarly to humans. By measuring hormone levels and stress-related diseases in each primate, he determines their relative stress, looking for patterns in personality and social behavior that might contribute. These exercises have given Sapolsky amazing insight into all primate social behavior , including our own. Besides being an accomplished researcher, Sapolsky has a special knack for conveying his complex work with ease and humor. He’s authored four popular books, among them Why Zebras Don’t Get Ulcers and The Trouble With Testosterone . He’s also a recipient of the famous MacArthur Genius Grant and subject of the National Geographic documentary Killer Stress .,“If a rat is a good model for your emotional life, you're in big trouble.” — Robert Sapolsky
Randy,Pausch,Really achieving your childhood dreams,Professor,https//www.cs.cmu.edu/~pausch/,,In 2006, professor Randy Pausch was diagnosed with a terminal case of pancreatic cancer. The next year, he stepped in front of an audience of hundreds of students and colleagues to deliver a last lecture called Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams. Video of the lecture became a phenomenon on the Internet, captivating millions with its upbeat delivery and at-times darkly funny tone, and it was later adapted into a bestselling book and numerous television appearances that reached millions more. Pausch taught computer science, human-computer interaction and design for two decades at Carnegie Mellon University, where he co-founded its Entertainment Technology Center. He founded the Alice software project -- a free, educational programming language -- and did sabbaticals at Walt Disney Imagineering and Electronic Arts. As an expert in user interface design, he also consulted with Google and Xerox PARC. In his last year, Pausch became a passionate spokesperson for the need for pancreatic cancer research .,“Most of us would slip into a deep depression, but Randy used the experience as teaching material.” — Katie Couric
Herbie,Hancock,An all-star set,Jazz legend, herbiehancock.com,,Pianist and composer Herbie Hancock has been a part of every permutation and development of both acoustic and electronic jazz since his career began. He truly stepped into the spotlight in 1963, releasing his first hit “Watermelon Man” and then joining the Miles Davis Quintet. From these promising beginnings, Hancock went on to outdo all expectations, earning critical acclaim, the respect of his peers and commercial success. He has generated more than 50 albums, won 12 Grammys, received an Academy Award and even scored five MTV Awards in the 1980s. Hancock is known for his extraordinary career as well as for his penchant for experimentation. A double major in music and electrical engineering at college, his fascination with musical gadgets led him to become one of the first jazz pianists to work with electronic keyboards. As well as using unexpected instruments, Hancock’s landmark albums blurred the boundaries of music , effortlessly mixing jazz with the once unlikely partners of funk, soul, rhythm and blues, and more. Hancock’s experimentation has changed the face of jazz forever, and even as he approaches his 70th year he continues to perform, create, push the envelope and amaze.,“Herbie was the step after Bud Powell and Thelonious Monk, and I haven't heard anybody yet who has come after him.” — Miles Davis
Romulus,Whitaker,The real danger lurking in the water,Herpetologist,www.draco-india.com/rom-biography.html,,Romulus Whitaker's boyhood fascination with the snakes near his home in Bombay has developed into a career of getting up close with some of the world's most venomous creatures. In 1972, Whitaker founded India's first snake park, in Madras, with support from the World Wildlife Fund. Later he founded the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust Centre for Herpetology to re-establish three species of crocodiles that were nearing extinction. The bank now houses 3,000 crocodiles of 15 species. Currently, Whitaker is focusing on the Gharial crocodile, whose species has less than 250 members left in Indian waters.,At age 65, he shows no sign of slowing down. “The Dragon Chronicles,” filmed in 2008 for PBS's series Nature , shows Whitaker cave-diving in ice-cold water for Slovenian olms, climbing trees in pursuit of flying lizards in the Western Ghats, and Komodo dragon-wrestling in Indonesia. Awarded the 2005 Whitley prize, Whitaker used the £30,000 purse to start the Agumbe Rainforest Research Station, the first to be built along the whole 1,000km length of the Western Ghats. He uses the research station to study king cobras in their natural habitat.
Dan,Buettner,How to live to be 100+,Longevity coach, explorer,https//www.bluezones.com/speaking/dan-buettner/,,What do Seventh-Day Adventists in California, the residents of Sardinia, Italy and the inhabitants of the islands of Okinawa, Japan have in common? They enjoy the longest, healthiest lives on the planet. Dan Buettner assembled a team of researchers to seek out these hotspots of human health and vitality, which he calls Blue Zones , and to figure out what they do that helps them live so long. Buettner, a world-renowned explorer and a writer for National Geographic , travels the world seeking out new Blue Zones (he's found five, to date) and speaking at seminars and on TV, sharing the habits that lead to long life. He is the founder of Quest Network, and has set three world records for endurance cycling.,“Dan Buettner takes us on a journey to explore the secrets of longevity and in so doing introduces us to a world of joy in aging ... at 91, this is very good news!” — Walter Cronkite
Nick,Veasey,Exposing the invisible,X-ray visionary,www.nickveasey.com/,,Toiling over 14-inch sheets of X-ray film in a hangar in Kent, photographer Nick Veasey has revealed the shadowy interiors of objects as diverse as vacuum tubes, bulldozers, jet airliners -- even fresh cadavers. By his own estimates, he's photographed thousands of everyday items , often arranging them into tableaux that are at the same time familiar and luminously alien. They reveal surprising details and prove that items have an inner beauty.,His book X-Ray See Through the World Around You showcases dozens of these photographs. Despite the painstakingly technical nature of the medium (an image of a Boeing 777 required a patchwork of 500 exposures), they radiate from the page with stunning, phantasmagorical delicacy.
Vilayanur,Ramachandran,The neurons that shaped civilization,Brain expert,cbc.ucsd.edu/ramabio.html,,V.S. Ramachandran is a mesmerizing speaker, able to concretely and simply describe the most complicated inner workings of the brain. His investigations into phantom limb pain, synesthesia and other brain disorders allow him to explore (and begin to answer) the most basic philosophical questions about the nature of self and human consciousness.,Ramachandran is the director of the Center for Brain and Cognition at the University of California, San Diego, and an adjunct professor at the Salk Institute. He is the author of Phantoms in the Brain (the basis for a Nova special), A Brief Tour of Human Consciousness and The Man with the Phantom Twin Adventures in the Neuroscience of the Human Brain .
Bertrand,Piccard,My solar-powered adventure,Solar adventurer,info.solarimpulse.com/en/tag/Bertrand-Piccard,,Bertrand Piccard was born in a family of firsts. His father, Jacques, together with Dan Walsh of the US, was the first man to reach the deepest point of the world's oceans, the Mariana Trench, in 1960. Almost 30 years earlier, his grandfather, Auguste, first ballooned into the stratosphere. While they went up and down, Bertrand went horizontal and in 1999, together with Brian Jones of Britain, completed the first-ever nonstop balloon circumnavigation of the globe, flying more than 45,000 km in 20 days. Now, in a hangar near Zurich, a team of scientists and engineers around Piccard and co-pilot André Borschberg is building Solar Impulse, an unconventional aircraft designed to circumnavigate the Earth powered by solar energy , flying day and night (yes, when the Sun is off). The prototype has the weight of a car but the wingspan of an Airbus. Solar Impulse has successfully flown from Spain to Morocco and across the United States. The next trip circumnavigation.,Piccard is also the founder of Winds of Hope, an organization to combat neglected diseases in children, and a Goodwill Ambassador to the United Nations Population Fund.
Cat,Laine,Engineering a better life for all,Social entrepreneur,paintedfoot.com/,,As Deputy Director of Appropriate Infrastructure Development Group (AIDG), Cat Laine spends her days working with communities in developing countries to solve their unique problems . She draws on the cross-disciplinary knowledge she's amassed -- despite her youth. She's moved from graduate work in infectious disease epidemiology at the Harvard School of Public Health to running a private media consultancy to speaking on trends in technology to her current position. Besides her native English, Laine is fluent in French and speaks Hatian Creole and Spanish as well. The combination of her understanding of those in countries with poor infrastructure and her multidisciplinary approach has made her a brilliant fit for her work rebuilding human lives.,“She's learned to approach problems from multiple angles -- from the fields of science, business, art, or mathematical modeling -- all in an effort to solve big time problems in the world.” — Chris Flanagan, Business Innovation Factory
Michael,Sandel,What's the right thing to do?,Political philosopher,www.gov.harvard.edu/people/faculty/michael-sandel,,Michael Sandel is one of the best known American public intellectuals. The London Observer calls him one of the most popular teachers in the world and indeed his lectures at Harvard draw thousands of students eager to discuss big questions of modern political life bioethics, torture, rights versus responsibilities, the value we put on things. Sandel's class is a primer on thinking through the hard choices we face as citizens. The course has been turned into a public TV series with companion website and book Justice What’s the Right Thing to Do? In his newest book, What Money Can't Buy, he challenges the idea that markets are morally neutral. To understand the importance of his purpose, a Guardian reviewer wrote of the book, you first have to grasp the full extent of the triumph achieved by market thinking in economics, and the extent to which that thinking has spread to other domains. This school sees economics as a discipline that has nothing to do with morality, and is instead the study of incentives, considered in an ethical vacuum. Sandel's book is, in its calm way, an all-out assault on that idea, and on the influential doctrine that the economic approach to utility maximisation explains all human behaviour.,Read more about his thinking on markets and morality Lunch with Michael Sandel on FT.com >>
Asher,Hasan,My message of peace from Pakistan,Social entrepreneur,www.schwabfound.org,,Asher Hasan is founder and CEO of Naya Jeevan , a social enterprise that provides low-income families in emerging economies with catastrophic healthcare . Naya Jeevan won first prize in the 2008 NYU Social Entrepreneurship Business Plan competition. Hasan was recently selected as a Draper Richards Social Entrepreneur Fellow, and is also an invited member of the Clinton Global Initiative. He has served as head of the US Medical Affairs Obesity Team for Amylin Pharmaceuticals, and joined TEDIndia in 2009 as a TEDIndia Fellow .,“[Naya Jeevan] will act as a catalytic intermediary between insurance companies and corporations in those countries, giving naya jeevan, or new life as it translates from Urdu and Hindi, to two large and severely underserved communities in South Asia low-income corporate employees and their children, as well as domestic staff members of corporate employees and their children.” — NYU Stern School of Business
Steven,Cowley,Fusion is energy's future,Physicist,www.imperial.ac.uk/people/steve.cowley,,The promise of fusion seems to have inspired more science-fiction novels than it has real developments in renewable energy, but Steven Cowley has begun to upset that balance. As director of the Culham Fusion Science Center, he's collaborating with the UK Atomic Energy Authority and researchers on the France-based ITER fusion device on projects that may lead to cheap, nearly limitless carbon-free energy. Fusion (the process by which lightweight atoms under pressure are fused to form heavier atoms, releasing energy) has long been the Holy Grail of renewable energy, but at the moment it only occurs in the cores of stars. Yet Cowley isn't too shy to proclaim that harnessing its power on an Earthly scale is now inevitable. At UCLA, he made observations on some of the most violent phenomena in the local universe -- solar flares, storms in the Earth's magnetosphere -- and now his research is coming directly into play as he plans devices that, theoretically, would contain 100-million-degree gas using powerful magnetic fields.,“Steve Cowley is a distinguished scientist with a global reputation. His return full time to the UK is very good news for European science and for Culham.” — Chris Llewellyn Smith
Shaffi,Mather,A new way to fight corruption,Social entrepreneur, lawyer,www.shaffimather.org/,,Shaffi Mather was a successful young entrepreneur, who brought a family-run real estate business to the forefront of the local market before moving on to take major positions at two of India’s largest communication corporations -- Essel Group and Reliance Industries. However, after a perilous ride to the hospital with his mother he was forced to confront India’s need for a dependable ambulance service. He left his career at Reliance and founded 1298 for Ambulance , a for-profit service with a sliding scale payment system that has revolutionized medical transport in Mumbai and Kerala. Today, Mather is also a co-founder of Moksha-Yug Access , a microfinance instiution that operates in rural India, and The Education Initiative, which is involved in e-learning and in creating schools across India. In addition, Mather is a lawyer focusing on litigation in public interest -- battling for transparency in governance and use of public funds, human rights, civil rights and primacy of constitution. He is a TEDIndia Fellow.,
James,Geary,Metaphorically speaking,Aphorist,www.jamesgeary.com,,One of a handful of the world's professional aphorists, James Geary has successfully fused early creative endeavors in performance art, poetry and juggling with his childhood fascination with the Quotable Quotes column in Reader's Digest . His books Geary's Guide to the World's Great Aphorists and the bestselling The World in a Phrase are invaluable journeys through the often-ignored art of the witty ( and memorably brief ) summation.,His next book is about the secret life of metaphors , and how metaphorical thinking drives invention and creativity. Geary is a former writer for Time Europe and is now an editor for Ode magazine, a print and online publication devoted to optimism and positive news.
Charles,Anderson,Dragonflies that fly across oceans,Marine biologist,csadesign.com/,,Since 1983, Charles Anderson has lived and worked in the Maldives, a group of more than 1,000 coral islands that is the world's lowest-lying country. Marine life here is rich and fascinating, and Anderson has been instrumental in identifying it and promoting its preservation. This year, the Maldives became the first nation to ban shark fishing, after recognizing that the decline in live sharks was impacting the lucrative tourist trade.,Anderson has discovered several new species of fish, and was awarded the President of Maldives Award for Service to Fisheries in 1995 , the only non-Maldivian ever to receive this honor. He and his wife, Susan, run several whale-watching trips each year where tourists take part in a national survey of cetaceans (whales and dolphins). recently, Anderson has identified the world's longest insect migration the 18,000 km flight of tiny Pantala flavescens dragonflies back and forth across the Indian Ocean. He has found that the migration begins in India and proceeds via the Maldives (a mystifying stopover, because freshwater is scarce on these low-lying atolls) and the Seychelles -- and then all the way to East Africa.
Alexis,Ohanian,How to make a splash in social media,Entrepreneur, Reddit.com,,Reddit, co-founded by Alexis Ohanian and friend Steve Huffman, has become one of the World Wide Web's most striking examples of democracy in action . Founded in 2005, it grew a user base of tens of thousands and quickly attracted the attention of publisher Cond é Nast, which acquired it in 2006. Unlike social bookmarking sites (such as Delicious), Reddit fashions itself a platform for social news, where the readers themselves control the front page by voting stories up above and down below the fold.,Ohanian left Reddit in his official capacity in 2009, but returned in 2014 as executive chairman. He has continued to be involved with the site's direction as a sort of godfather, dispensing friendly wisdom (and t-shirts) from his user account, kn0thing . Of late, he's focusing on Breadpig, a hub for geeky books and merchandise. In early 2010, he spent three months in Armenia as a Kiva Fellow.
Ryan,Lobo,Photographing the hidden story,Photographer, ryanlobo.net,,During a recent shoot on the streets and beaches of Chennai, Ryan Lobo turned his lens on men and women in relaxed, after-work poses. His starkly beautiful black-and-white photos, Lobo writes, reveal what it's like “to be young, employed and alive in Chennai today, regardless of one's language, economic class or social skills.” This follows the theme of Lobo's career breaking down stereotypes while reframing the landscape.,Since 2001, Lobo has been taking haunting stills of everything from Yakuza tattoos and the illegal organ trade to the Indian middle class . He's worked as a field producer on many nature-oriented shows for National Geographic and founded Mad Monitor Productions, a production company based in Bangalore and Washington, D.C. There's no scientific, economic or sociopolitical boundary Lobo isn't willing to cross. His intense fieldwork continues to illuminate his traveling (you can read about his journeys and see photographs on his blog) and a forthcoming book project.
Loretta,Napoleoni,The intricate economics of terrorism,Macroeconomist,lorettanapoleoni.net/,,Once it was easy to know where our money was going. Now we live under a system Loretta Napoleoni has dubbed rogue economics, where the blurry histories of the products we consume and the cash we invest make us complicit in financing barely legal credit schemes -- and even crime, if it's the slavery producing the beans for our lattes or the guts of our mobile phones. The reach of the newly global market, as Napoleoni argues in her new book, Rogue Economics Capitalism's New Reality, connects us all to the dark side, regardless of our intentions to be responsible -- and, she says, our deep connection to fishy credit and unregulated finance has laid the groundwork for the current economic crisis . Her previous book, Terror Incorporated, dives into the true economic impact of terrorism.,“Napoleoni argues that the crisis won't end until the excesses of globalization -- which include growing criminal markets in sex slaves and counterfeit drugs -- are brought under control.” — Temma Ehrenfeld, Newsweek
Shereen,El,Pop culture in the Arab world,Arab sexuality expert, sexandthecitadel.com,,Dividing her time between London and Cairo, TED Fellow Shereen El Feki works on issues related to health and social welfare in the Arab region -- including intimate attitudes toward sexual (and political) freedoms, as explored in her new book, Sex and the Citadel .,Half-Egyptian and half-Welsh, El Feki was brought up in Canada. She started her professional life in medical science, with a PhD in molecular immunology from the University of Cambridge, and later worked as healthcare correspondent at The Economist . She also is a former vice chair of the United Nations' Global Commission on HIV and Law. While she has worked in regional media as a presenter with the Al Jazeera Network, and continues to write on social issues in the Arab world, her passion lies in projects that aim to better understand, and surmount, the social challenges facing Arabs, particularly young people.
Thulasiraj,Ravilla,How low-cost eye care can be world-class,Vision activist,www.schwabfound.org/...,,As director of the Lions Aravind Institute of Community Opthalmology, Thulasiraj Ravilla is helping to promulgate the Aravind Eye Care System's exam, diagnosis and treatment model to find culturally relevant solutions to the problem of avoidable blindness throughout India, and throughout the world.,Ravilla serves as chair of the Southeast Asian arm of the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness, and is head of Vision 2020 The Right to Sight , a global initiative for the elimination of blindness. He developed the LAICO-Aravind Eye Hospital Care System, and continues to lead it.
Marc,Pachter,The art of the interview,Cultural Historian,https//www.ted.com/speakers/marc_pachter,,Marc Pachter is a man of many talents, and it seems he's used every one of them during his 33 years at the Smithsonian Institution. Although he has devoted most of his career to one organization, with the single goal of capturing the lives of great Americans, to do so he has played multiple roles. He began his time at the Smithsonian just after a five-year stint at Harvard, where he earned a master's in history and taught Colonial history. Since that time he has served as acting director of the National Museum of American History, chaired the celebration of the Smithsonian's 150th anniversary, created the first national portrait competition, organized the first national conference on biography and created an interview program called Living Self-Portaits which earned him the title of Smithsonian master interviewer. In his final years at the Smithsonian, Pachter was director of the National Portrait Gallery Director, retiring in 2007 to work on his writing. Pachter has authored two books, Telling Lives The Biographer's Art and A Gallery of Presidents , and is editor of several more. In addition, he holds an editorial role at the peer-reviewed journal Biography and was senior cultural advisor to the United States Information Agency for some years.,“For decades, Marc Pachter has been an invaluable asset to the Smithsonian in many ways as a museum director, scholar, author, educator and interviewer. He's done it all. In doing so, he's greatly expanded the cultural life of the nation's capital and the country. ” — Lawrence M. Small, Smithsonian Secretary
Rory,Bremner,A one-man world summit,Comedian,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rory_Bremner,,From pop star to political pundit, Scottish-born satirist Rory Bremner has been channeling famous folks for decades. While the frenetic funny man may be most recognized for his regular cameo on Whose Line is It Anyway? (that was Bremner as Prince Charles on a dating show), his wicked impressions of Tony Blair and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have landed him in popular one-man shows and on BBC news and comedy spots like Mock the Week . Bremner's comedic antics run the gamut between anti-war activism to Monty Python -like goofiness . He recently convinced Labour Party's Margaret Beckett he was Prime Minister Gordon Brown during a controversial phone conversation. When he's not prank-calling members of Parliament, the tri-lingual comedian writes farcical plays and translates operas from French and German into English. He recently wit-syncedat The Big Brecht Fest at London's Young Vic Theatre.,“Bremner's enthusiasm is tangible. He is utterly absorbed by politics and its idiocies.” — Danuta Kean
Sunitha,Krishnan,The fight against sex slavery,Anti-trafficking crusader,sunithakrishnan.blogspot.com/,,Each year, some two million women and children, many younger than 10 years old, are bought and sold around the globe. Impassioned by the silence surrounding the sex-trafficking epidemic, Sunitha Krishnan co-founded Prajwala , or eternal flame, a group in Hyderabad that rescues women from brothels and educates their children to prevent second-generation prostitution. Prajwala runs 17 schools throughout Hyderabad for 5,000 children and has rescued more than 2,500 women from prostitution, 1,500 of whom Krishnan personally liberated. At its Asha Niketan center, Prajwala helps young victims prepare for a self-sufficient future.,Krishnan has sparked India's anti-trafficking movement by coordinating government, corporations and NGOs. She forged NGO-corporate partnerships with companies like Amul India, Taj Group of Hotels and Heritage Hospitals to find jobs for rehabilitated women. In collaboration with UN agencies and other NGOs, she established printing and furniture shops that have rehabilitated some 300 survivors. Krishnan works closely with the government to define anti-trafficking policy, and her recommendations for rehabilitating sex victims have been passed into state legislation.
Scott,Kim,The art of puzzles,Puzzlemaster,www.scottkim.com/,,Over his 20-year career as a designer of visual puzzles, Scott Kim has created hundreds of puzzles for magazines, and thousands for computer games. His puzzles have appeared inside video games such as Obsidian , in browser games like Bejeweled , and in his regular monthly column, The Boggler , in Discover Magazine . Kim's interest in puzzles sprang from an early interest in mathematics, education and art. He specializes in ambigrams, or inversions for example, a word that reads more than one way. His first puzzles appeared in Scientific American in Martin Gardner's Mathematical Games column, and are now included in many different books, toys and games. His games can also be played on his website or found on greeting cards. Kim's 1981 book, Inversions , features a collection of inversions -- a word or name written so it reads in more than one way. His second book contains a collection of his puzzles originally submitted to magazines and is entitled The New Media Puzzle Workout.,“Scott Kim is the Escher of the alphabet. ” — Isaac Asimov
Anupam,Mishra,The ancient ingenuity of water harvesting,Environmental activist,anupammishra.prosite.com/,,Anupam Mishra travels across water-challenged India studying rainwater harvesting methods and learning from the people behind them. He presents his findings to NGOs, development agencies and environmental groups, pulling from centuries of indigenous wisdom that has found water for drinking and irrigation even in extremely arid landscapes through wells, filter ponds and other catchment systems.,A founding member of the Gandhi Peace Foundation, Mishra is working to bridge the gap between modern water management technology and india's heritage of water harvesting , so that every community is self-sustainable and efficiently safekeeping an increasingly scarce and precious resource.
Andrea,Ghez,The hunt for a supermassive black hole,Astronomer,www.astro.ucla.edu/~ghez/,,Seeing the unseen (from 26,000 light-years away) is a specialty of UCLA astronomer Andrea Ghez. From the highest and coldest mountaintop of Hawaii, home of the Keck Observatory telescopes, using bleeding-edge deep-space-scrying technology , Ghez handily confirmed 30 years of suspicions of what lies at the heart of the Milky Way galaxy -- a supermassive black hole, which sends its satellite stars spinning in orbits approaching the speed of light. Ghez received a MacArthur genius grant in 2008 for her work in surmounting the limitations of earthbound telescopes. Early in her career, she developed a technique known as speckle imaging , which combined many short exposures from a telescope into one much-crisper image. Lately she's been using adaptive optics to further sharpen our view from here -- and compile evidence of young stars at the center of the universe.,“Few people know the center of the Milky Way -- some 26,000 light-years from Earth -- as intimately as Andrea Ghez.” — Nova
Gordon,Brown,Global ethic vs. national interest,British Prime Minister,gordonandsarahbrown.com/,,During his long term of office, former UK prime minister Gordon Brown became one of the world's most experienced political leaders, with a deep understanding of the global economy based on 10 years' experience as Great Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer. He has been a key architect of the G8's agreements on poverty and climate change, and has provided a passionate voice to encourage the developed world to aid struggling African countries. He is an advocate of global solutions for global problems -- through both the reinvention of international institution and the advancement of a global ethics . While prime minister, Brown promoted technology as a tool for economic (and environmental) recovery. With his charge to count the carbon and the pennies, research on electric cars and residential energy efficiency are slated to become a major part of the UK's recovery plan. He pushed for universal broadband and a general increase in spending on science . And he sought to use new communication tools like Twitter and YouTube as a means to communicate government policy.,“Brown does not run from the image of the homme sérieux.” — New York Review of Books
Shashi,Tharoor,Why nations should pursue soft power,Politician and writer, tharoor.in,,In May 2009, Shashi Tharoor was elected to Parliament, representing the Thiruvananthapuram constituency in Kerala. For 10 months, he also served as Minister for External Affairs, charged with helping India engage with the world . Follow him on Twitter, @shashitharoor , or his YouTube channel , to get a look in at his whirlwind life of service.,Before entering politics, Tharoor spent almost three decades with the UN as a refugee worker and peace-keeper, working as a senior adviser to the Secretary-General. Meanwhile, he maintained a parallel career as a writer, producing three novels, a biography of Nehru and several collections of essays on literature and global affairs (plus hundreds of articles for magazines and journals). He was the UN Under-Secretary General for Communications and Public Information under Kofi Annan , and was India's candidate in 2006 for the post of Secretary-General. He left the UN in 2007.
Mallika,Sarabhai,Dance to change the world,Dancer, actor, activist,mallikasarabhai.com,,Mallika Sarabhai is a powerhouse of communication and the arts in India. Educated in business, she now leads the Darpana dance company, which works in the Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi forms. She's also a writer, publisher, actor, producer, anchorwoman ... and all her varied forms of artistic engagement are wrapped around a deep social conscience.,In the mid-1980s, she spent five years playing the lead character Draupadi in Peter Brook's Mahabharata in venues around the world. Returning to India, she entered a fertile period of choreography and creativity, starting with the dance Shakti The Power of Women . She has founded a TV production company that produces activist programming in Gujarati, and runs Mapin, a publisher of books on art and design.
Magnus,Larsson,Turning dunes into architecture,Dune architect,www.magnuslarsson.com/architecture/dune.asp,,Architecture student Magnus Larsson wants to turn some of the most deserted and harsh landscapes on the planet into habitable structures. How? By turning loose sand dunes into solid architecture using bacteria . A team at UC Davis has been looking at the microorganism bacillus pasteurii to solidify the ground in earthquake-prone areas. As Larsson puts it, All I did was to deliberately misapply their technology ... and to pump up the scale, and turn it into a 6,000-km-long wall that's made of sand and protects against sand. After talking with Jason DeJong at UC Davis and with Stefano Ciurli, a b. pasteurii expert at the University of Bologna, Larsson put together a team at University College London to grow the bacteria and attempt to solidify sand. His Holcim Award-winning proposal is a complement to the Green Wall Sahara shelterbelt, being planted across the African continent. Larsson is now investigating how to bring the project to the next stage a 11 scale prototype.,“One of the most interesting aspects of the project, I think, is that this solidified dunescape is created through a particularly novel form of ‚Äòsustainable construction' -- that is, through a kind of infection of the earth.” — Geoff Manaugh, BLDG BLOG
Rob,Hopkins,Transition to a world without oil,Resilience leader,transitionculture.org/about/,,Rob Hopkins leads a vibrant new movement of towns and cities that utilize local cooperation and interdependence to shrink their ecological footprints . In the face of climate change he developed the concept of Transition Initiatives -- communities that produce their own goods and services, curb the need for transportation and take other measures to prepare for a post-oil future. While Transition shares certain principles with greenness and sustainability, it is a deeper vision concerned with re-imagining our future in a self-sufficient way and building resiliency. Transforming theory to action, Hopkins is also the co-founder and a resident of the first Transition Initiative in the UK, in Totnes, Devon. As he refuses to fly, it is from his home in Totnes that he offers help to hundreds of similar communities that have sprung up around the world, in part through his blog, transitionculture.org . Hopkins, who's trained in ecological design, wrote the principal work on the subject, Transition Handbook From Oil Dependency to Local Resilience , a 12-step manual for a postcarbon future. Find notes and slides from his TEDTalk here >>,“Rob Hopkins is the Gentle Giant of the green movement, and his timely and hugely important book reveals a fresh and empowering approach that will help us transition into a materially leaner but inwardly richer human experience.” — Dr Stephan Harding, author of Animate Earth Science, Intuition and Gaia
Hans,Rosling,Asia's rise — how and when,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Tom,Wujec,Learn to use the 13th-century astrolabe,Designer,tomwujec.com,,Tom Wujec is a Fellow at Autodesk, the makers of design software for engineers, filmmakers, designers. At Autodesk, he has worked on software including SketchBook Pro, PortfolioWall and Maya (which won an Academy Award for its contribution to the film industry). As a Fellow, he helps companies work in the emerging field of business visualization, the art of using images, sketches and infographics to help teams solve complex problems as a group.,He's the author of several books, including Five-Star Mind Games and Puzzles to Stimulate Your Creativity and Imagination .
Devdutt,Pattanaik,East vs. West — the myths that mystify,Mythologist, devdutt.com,,We all search for meaning in our work and lives. Devdutt Pattanaik suggests we try a tactic of our ancestors -- finding life lessons in myth, ritual and shared stories. When he was Chief Belief Officer at Future Group in Mumbai, he helped managers harness the power of myth to understand their employees, their companies and their customers. He's working to create a Retail Religion, to build deep, lasting ties between customers and brands.,Pattanaik is a self-taught mythologist, and the author (and often illustrator) of several works on aspects of myth, including the primer Myth = Mithya A Handbook of Hindu Mythology and his most recent book, 7 Secrets from Hindu Calendar Art . He writes a column called Management Mythos for Economic Times that juxtaposes myth onto modern leadership challenges. His newest area of inquiry How is traditional management, as expressed in old Indian cultural narratives, different from modern scientific management techniques?
Fields,Wicker-Miurin,Learning from leadership's missing manual,Social entrepreneur,www.leadersquest.org/people/bio/fields-wicker-miurin,,Fields Wicker-Miurin is co-founder of Leaders' Quest , an organization that brings together leaders from around the world to learn about key trends in their regions, and to explore their role as leaders. Through regional Quests, leaders learn how their efforts are interconnected and have the potential to improve the world at the global level, too. Leaders' Quest is cross-cultural, interdisciplinary, and multi-generational.,Wicker-Miurin is also a director of CDC Group, a UK development finance institution, and Savills, an international property advisory company. She frequently speaks and writes about 21st-century leadership issues, and is a Governor of King's College London.
Mathieu,Lehanneur,Science-inspired design,Designer,www.mathieulehanneur.fr/,,Mathieu Lehanneur first began turning the heads of design junkies at MOMA's 2008 show Design and the Elastic Mind-- a watershed survey celebrating fusions of technology and wild imagination. With its Lucite lines, lush green interior and rounded corners, the Andrea purifier featured in the exhibit resembles a mash-up of a terrarium and an iMac, but its function is less visible. Inspired by NASA research and designed by Lehanneur and partner David Edwards so that the plants in it metabolize the micro-toxins in the air, it's nothing less than a domestic breathing machine. Though he's inspired by nature, Lehanneur isn't interested in biomimicry, but rather in the symbiosis between living and synthetic materials, often to solve environmental problems. Lehanneur's Local River , at first glance a large aquarium-cum-herb garden, is in fact designed to be an indoor food farm, with the locavore in mind. He also integrates technology into his designs for commercial products such as Binauric's Boom Boom speakers and Lexon's Take Time watch .,“Most air filters only catch particulates such as dust and pollen rather than organic compounds like formaldehyde and benzene, and the filters that do trap those gases need frequent replacement. So Lehanneur and Edwards built an ultra-efficient filtration system that eliminates toxins using nature's own hazmat squad plants.” — Popular Science
Pranav,Mistry,The thrilling potential of SixthSense technology,Director of research, Samsung Research America,pranavmistry.com,,When Pranav Mistry was a PhD student in the Fluid Interfaces Group at MIT's Media Lab, he worked with lab director Pattie Maes to create some of the most entertaining and thought-provoking interfaces the world had ever seen. And not just computer interfaces, mind you -- these are ways to help the digital and the actual worlds interface. Imagine intelligent sticky notes, Quickies , that can be searched and can send reminders, a pen that draws in 3D, and TaPuMa , a tangible public map that can act as Google of physical world. And of course the legendary SixthSense , which is now open sourced,Before his studies at MIT, he worked with Microsoft as a UX researcher, he's a graduate of IIT. Now, as director of research at Samsung Research America , Mistry heads the Think Tank Team, an interdisciplinary group of researchers that hunts for new ways to mix digital informational with real-world interactions. As an example, Mistry launched the company's smartwatch, the Galaxy Gear , in 2013.
Cynthia,Schneider,The surprising spread of Idol TV,Cultural diplomacy expert,www.brookings.edu/experts/schneiderc,,Cynthia P. Schneider is a Fellow at the Brookings Institution , where she leads the Arts and Culture Initiative within the Saban Center for Middle East Policy. In her work, she looks at the Muslim world through its cultural products (movies, films, books and shows), and searches for clues to deeper social change.,
Edward,Burtynsky,Photographing the landscape of oil,Photographer,edwardburtynsky.com,,To describe Canadian photographer Edward Burtynsky's work in a single adjective, you have to speak French jolie-laide. His images of scarred landscapes -- from mountains of tires to rivers of bright orange waste from a nickel mine -- are eerily pretty yet ugly at the same time. Burtynsky's large-format color photographs explore the impact of humanity's expanding footprint and the substantial ways in which we're reshaping the surface of the planet. His images powerfully alter the way we think about the world and our place in it.,With his blessing and encouragement, WorldChanging.com and others use his work to inspire ongoing global conversations about sustainable living. Burtynsky's photographs are included in the collections of over 50 museums around the world, including the Tate, London and the Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim in New York City. A large-format book, 2003's Manufactured Landscapes, collected his work, and in 2007, a documentary based on his photography, also called Manufactured Landscapes , debuted at the Toronto Film Festival before going on to screen at Sundance and elsewhere. It was released on DVD in March 2007. In 2008, after giving a talk at the Long Now Foundation, Burtynsky proposed The 10,000 Year Gallery, which could house art to be curated over thousands of years preserved through carbon transfers in an effort to reflect the attitudes and changes of the world over time.
Rachel,Pike,The science behind a climate headline,Atmospheric chemist,www.rachelpike.com/,,Rachel Pike knows the intricacies of climate research -- the laborious, exacting and subtle techniques behind findings that end up in IPCC reports and, later, news headlines.,As a Ph.D candidate at Cambridge, Pike's research on isoprene , a major biofuel crop emission, and other molecules has taken her soaring over rainforest canopies in multi-ton labs-on-wings, into the cooled-down sub-levels of supercomputer grids, and into massive experimental atmospheric chambers. Her exhaustive work represents a major step toward a complete picture of how human activity affects the global ecosystem .
Cameron,Sinclair,The refugees of boom-and-bust,Co-founder, Architecture for Humanity,www.cameronsinclair.com/,,After training as an architect, Cameron Sinclair (then age 24) joined Kate Stohr to found Architecture for Humanity , a nonprofit that helps architects apply their skills to humanitarian efforts. Starting with just $700 and a simple web site in 1999, AFH has grown into an international hub for humanitarian design, offering innovative solutions to housing problems in all corners of the globe . Whether rebuilding earthquake-ravaged Bam in Iran, designing a soccer field doubling as an HIV/AIDS clinic in Africa, housing refugees on the Afghan border, or helping Katrina victims rebuild, Architecture for Humanity works by Sinclair's mantra  Design like you give a damn . (Sinclair and Stohr cowrote a book by the same name, released in 2006.) A regular contributor to the sustainability blog Worldchanging.com , Sinclair is now working on the Open Architecture Network , born from the wish he made when he accepted the 2006 TED Prize  to build a global, open-source network where architects, governments and NGOs can share and implement design plans to house the world.,“Cameron Sinclair is doing his best to save the world, one emergency shelter and mobile AIDS clinic at a time.” — Washington Post
Stefana,Broadbent,How the Internet enables intimacy,Tech anthropologist,about.me/stefana.broadbent,,Stefana Broadbent, a cognitive scientist, has spent decades observing people as they use technology , both at home and in complex workspaces such as air-traffic control towers. She looks at the way we use our brand-new tools, and at the evolving practices for each tool (for instance, you might phone your mother, but text your spouse, IM with a co-worker, but tweet among friends) that speak volumes on the way we think about our relationships. Using traditional and evolving ethnographic practices in her work, most recently for Swisscom and now as a Fellow at the new Digital Anthropology department at University College in London, she has made some surprising findings. Did you know, for instance, that many of us now write to our friends more often than we talk to them ? Or that even the most hardened road warriors prefer to do real work at their own desks?,“She does not only feed you with plenty of data indicating new trends, she also goes deeper by connecting them to higher-level issues ([such as] cognitive psychology). ” — Pasta & Vinegar blog
Matthew,White,The modern euphonium,Brass virtuoso,www.matthewewhite.com/,,The euphonium, a sort of midsize tuba, is capable of great beauty of tone and a wide harmonic range. But it is notoriously difficult to master, which perhaps explains why it is fairly little-known. Matthew White has been playing the euphfor years and years, and his mature, confident playing belies his age. White was a finalist in the brass section of the 2008 BBC Young Musicians of the Year competition, and has guested with the legendary Black Dyke Band as the first honoree musician in the band's Young Artist Scheme, a yearlong fellowship. He was Principal Euphonium with the National Youth Brass Band of Great Britain, and also played with the award-winning Leyland Band. He now continues his study of the euphonium at the Royal Northern College of Music.,“A fabulous sound, lovely technique and coped with the demands of the piece whilst communicating with the audience superbly.” — Review, 2007 BBC Radio
Marcus,du,Symmetry, reality's riddle,Mathematician,findingmoonshine.blogspot.com/,,Marcus du Sautoy only permits prime numbers on the uniforms of his football team, but that idiosyncrasy isn't (entirely) driven by superstition -- just pure love. (His number is 17.) You might say primes, the atoms of mathematics, as he calls them, are du Sautoy's intellectual spouse , the passion that has driven him from humble-enough academic beginnings to a spectacular and awarded career in maths, including a Royal Society fellowship and, of course, his recent election to the Simonyi Professorship for the Public Understanding of Science, the post previously held by Richard Dawkins. A gifted science communicator -- interesting fashion sense aside -- du Sautoy has most recently been host of the BBC miniseries The Story of Maths, which explores fascinating mathematical theories and techniques from throughout history and across cultures. Before that, he hosted The Num8er My5teries, a lecture series on history's stubbornest math problems -- the sorts of conundrums that get your head griddle-hot with thinking . He's also author, perhaps most famously, of The Music of the Primes , an engaging look at the often Pyrrhic attempts at cracking the Riemann Hypothesis. His 2008 book, Symmetry A Journey into the Patterns of Nature , looks at various kinds of mathematical and aesthetic symmetry, including a massive, mysterious object called the Monster that exists in 196,883 dimensions.,“This is a man who knows how to bring mathematics to everyday life.” — Robin McKie, The Observer
Becky,Blanton,The year I was homeless,Writer, BeckyBlanton.com,,Primarily, Becky Blanton is a writer. She was a journalist for more than 22 years, working as a reporter, photojournalist and editor. Today, she is best known for her independent writing. Tim Russert selected her essay The Monster, to be included in his last book, Wisdom of Our Fathers . On the heels of this success, Becky won a competition held by Dan Pink to come up with an additional lesson for his bestselling book The Adventures of Johnny Bunko . The prize was admission to TEDGlobal 2009, where she gave a talk on her personal journey through homelessness. Blanton is now working on her first book, to be titled Staying Hungry, the Official Guide for Never Settling for What Life Puts on Your Plate , as well as a second about how her dog saved her life while she was homeless. The proceeds from the second book will be donated to The Humane Society. Blanton also continues to blog and post photos from her adventures at beckyblanton.com,“Becky Blanton is a prolific and seasoned freelance writer who broke all the rules of social media. ” — Mashable.comRachel,Armstrong,Architecture that repairs itself?,Applied scientist, innovator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rachel_armstrong,,Rachel Armstrong innovates and designs sustainable solutions for the built and natural environment using advanced new technologies such as, Synthetic Biology – the rational engineering of living systems - and smart chemistry. Her research prompts a reevaluation of how we think about our homes and cities and raises questions about sustainable development of the built environment. She creates open innovation platforms for academia and industry to address environmental challenges such as carbon capture & recycling, smart ‘living’ materials and sustainable design.,Her award winning research underpins her bold approach to the way that she challenges perceptions, presumptions and established principles related to scientific concepts and the building blocks of life and society. She embodies and promotes new transferrable ways of thinking ‘outside of the box’ and enables others to also develop innovative environmental solutions. Her innovative approaches are outlined in her forthcoming TED Book on Living Architecture.
David,Deutsch,A new way to explain explanation,Quantum physicist,www.daviddeutsch.org.uk/,,David Deutsch will force you to reconsider your place in the world. This legendary Oxford physicist is the leading proponent of the multiverse (or many worlds) interpretation of quantum theory -- the idea that our universe is constantly spawning countless numbers of parallel worlds .,In his own words Everything in our universe -- including you and me, every atom and every galaxy -- has counterparts in these other universes. If that doesn't alter your consciousness, then the other implications he's derived from his study of subatomic physics -- including the possibility of time travel -- just might.
Ian,Goldin,Navigating our global future,Economist, development visionary,ww.theigc.org/person/ian-goldin,,Take a look at Ian Goldin's jam-packed CV and you'll see why he was appointed the first Director of Oxford University's new think tank-cum-research center, the 21st Century School , later renamed the Oxford Martin School  Goldin battled apartheid in his native South Africa, served as a development adviser to Nelson Mandela and, as the VP of the World Bank, led collaborations with the UN on global development strategy. He is the author of 19 books, including Exceptional People How Migration Shaped our World and Will Define our Future (Princeton University Press, 2011), Divided Nations Why global governance is failing and what we can do about it (Oxford University Press, 2013) and The Butterfly Defect How globalization creates systemic risks, and what to do about it (Princeton University Press, 2014).,At Oxford Martin School, with a diverse brigade of over 200 top researchers from the hard and social sciences, Goldin is bringing fresh thinking to bear on the big, looming issues of the next 100 years climate change, disruptive technological advancements, aging, bio-ethics, infectious disease, poverty, political conflict.
Marc,Koska,1.3m reasons to re-invent the syringe,Inventor,marckoska.com/,,In 1984, Marc Koska read an article that predicted HIV would spread widely through unsafe injections. He writes, Appalled at the prospect of such an avoidable catastrophe, I decided there and then to try and do something about it . The prediction, sadly, turned out to be true syringe reuse now accounts for 1.3 million deaths -- more than malaria. In the next years, Koska undertook the study of public health to find out what could be done. He determined that the design of syringes was the critical issue.,Today, Koska's solution to the problem, the K1 syringe -- it locks down after a single injection, preventing reuse -- is in use by millions. But he hasn't stopped there In 2005, he founded a nonprofit, SafePoint , which aims to educate people in the developing world about the dangers of reusing any instruments that come into contact with blood.
Itay,Talgam,Lead like the great conductors,Conductor and consultant,www.talgam.com/,,Itay Talgam finds metaphors for organizational behavior -- and models for inspired leadership -- within the workings of the symphony orchestra. Imagining music as a model for all spheres of human creativity, from the classroom to the boardroom, Talgam created the Maestro Leadership Program.,Talgam's workshops aim to help everyday people develop a musician's sense of collaboration, and a conductor's sense of leadership that inner sense of being intuitively, even subconsciously, connected to your fellow players, giving what they need and getting what you need. It's this art of listening and reacting in the moment that makes for a swinging jazz combo, a sublime string quartet, a brilliant orchestra -- and great teams at work.
Paul,Debevec,Animating a photo-real digital face,Computer graphics pioneer,www.pauldebevec.com/,,Called Hollywood's Master of Light by MIT's Technology Review , Paul Debevec leads the Graphics Laboratory at USC's Institute for Creative Technologies , where he directs the development of the Light Stage systems, which capture and simulate how people and objects appear in real-world illumination . His work on lighting digital objects has been used in films like X-Men , The Golden Compass and Terminator Salvation . He leads the design of HDR Shop , the first high-dynamic-range image editing program. He has collaborated with TEDster Golan Levin on an interactive art installation called Rouen Revisited .,“By creating more accurate artificial lighting on a computer, he says, his team is giving filmmakers more flexibility in their shots and more efficient ways to generate effects. Which means time and money saved on shooting, editing, and drawing graphics-not to mention more convincing results.” — Gregory T. Huang, Technology Review
John,Gerzema,The post-crisis consumer,Marketing whiz,johngerzema.com,,John Gerzema has spent his career creating and guiding the brand strategies of many of our household names McDonald's, BMW, Coca-Cola, United Airlines, Holiday Inn and more. Today, as Chief Insights Officer for marketing giant Young & Rubicam , he combines his expertise with the information reaped from Y&R's Brand Asset Valuator (an enormous database of brands) to understand and anticipate change in the intricate world of commerce . Gerzema is co-author of The Brand Bubble , a new book that advocates change as the best strategy for brand management in today's market. This is not his first avant-garde move either -- he was one of the early adopters of account planning in American advertising, a method that places the consumer front and center in the branding process. After speaking at TEDxKC, Gerzema penned a second book called Spend Shift based on the premises of his talk on the changing habits of the post-crisis consumer.,
Julian,Treasure,The 4 ways sound affects us,Sound consultant,JulianTreasure.com,,Julian Treasure is the chair of the Sound Agency , a firm that advises worldwide businesses -- offices, retailers, hotels -- on how to use sound. He asks us to pay attention to the sounds that surround us . How do they make us feel productive, stressed, energized, acquisitive?,Treasure is the author of the book Sound Business and keeps a blog by the same name that ruminates on aural matters (and offers a nice day-by-day writeup of TEDGlobal 2009). In the early 1980s, Treasure was the drummer for the Fall-influenced band Transmitters .
Henry,Markram,A brain in a supercomputer,Neuroscientist,markram-lab.epfl.ch/,,In the microscopic, yet-uncharted circuitry of the cortex, Henry Markram is perhaps the most ambitious -- and our most promising -- frontiersman. Backed by the extraordinary power of the IBM Blue Gene supercomputing architecture, which can perform hundreds of trillions of calculations per second, he's using complex models to precisely simulate the neocortical column (and its tens of millions of neural connections) in 3D. Though the aim of Blue Brain research is mainly biomedical, it has been edging up on some deep, contentious philosophical questions about the mind -- Can a robot think? and Can consciousness be reduced to mechanical components? -- the consequence of which Markram is well aware Asked by Seed Magazine what a simulation of a full brain might do, he answered, Everything. I mean everything  -- with a grin. Now, with a successful proof-of-concept for simulation in hand (the project's first phase was completed in 2007), Markram is looking toward a future where brains might be modeled even down to the molecular and genetic level . Computing power marching rightward and up along the graph of Moore's Law, Markram is sure to be at the forefront as answers to the mysteries of cognition emerge.,“Markram refers to the robot as science on an industrial scale, and is convinced that it’s the future of lab work. So much of what we do in science isn’t actually science, he says, I say let robots do the mindless work so that we can spend more time thinking about our questions.” — Jonah Lehrer, Seed Magazine
Rory,Sutherland,Life lessons from an ad man,Advertising guru,https//ogilvy.co.uk/.../rory-sutherland-takes-top-spot-d..,,From unlikely beginnings as a classics teacher to his current job as Vice Chairman of Ogilvy Group, Rory Sutherland has created his own brand of the Cinderella story. He joined Ogilvy & Mather's planning department in 1988, and became a junior copywriter, working on Microsoft's account in its pre-Windows days. An early fan of the Internet, he was among the first in the traditional ad world to see the potential in these relatively unknown technologies. An immediate understanding of the possibilities of digital technology and the Internet powered Sutherland's meteoric rise. He continues to provide insight into advertising in the age of the Internet and social media through his blog at Campaign's Brand Republic site, his column The Wiki Man at The Spectator and his busy Twitter account .,“Rory is the original advocate of '360-degree branding,' a persuasive and charismatic speaker and has a tremendous knack for making ideas come to life in an easily digestible way. He has been walking the walk longer than anyone.” — Gary Leih, Ogilvy Group Chairman
David,Hanson,Robots that show emotion,Robotics designer,www.hansonrobotics.com/,,David Hanson is the founder and CEO of Hanson Robotics -- a company that aims to create robots as socially adept as any human being . Through his organization, he has seen the success of robotic facial hardware that establishes eye contact, recognizes faces and carries out natural spoken conversation. Hanson hopes these robotic faces prove useful to cognitive science and psychology, and to the entertainment industry. A former Walt Disney Imagineer, this young entrepreneur and roboticist has been labelled a genius by both PC Magazine and WIRED , and has earned awards from NASA, NSF and Cooper Hewitt Design. If Hanson succeeds, he will create a socially intelligent robot that may even one day have a place in the human family.,“This moment is the Kitty Hawk of androids. We're seeing the arrival of conversational robots that can walk in our world. It's a golden age of invention.” — David Hanson, in TIME
Eric,Sanderson,New York — before the City,Landscape ecologist,www.wcs.org › ... › Wildlife Videos,,Before becoming the center of the Western cultural universe, Manhattan was Mannahatta, Island of many hills, in the language of 17th-century Native Americans. Using computer modeling, painstaking research and a lot of legwork, Wildlife Conservation Society ecologist Eric Sanderson has re-envisioned, block by block, the ecology of Manhattan as it was when Henry Hudson first sailed into the forested harbor in 1609. The Mannahatta Project presents the eye-popping fruits of Sanderson's research, from the now-flattened hills of the financial district to the river otters of Harlem. The project's astonishing visualizations are realized by computer-graphics wizard Markley Boyer, and encompasses a book, a website and a 3-D map -- a sort of Google Earth of ancient New York. Plaques around town will commemorate a lost creek or habitat. Far more than a mournful look back at what has been irrevocably paved over, the Mannahatta Project is designed to inspire ecological sustainability for New York and for other cities .,“The Mannahatta Project aspires to minute verisimilitude, down to the varieties of moss, and will facilitate a kind of naturalists' version of George-Washingtonslept-here ... The idea of all this, of course, is to get us to appreciate the remnants of the natural world, even in this degraded place.” — Nick Paumgarten, The New Yorker
Sam,Martin,Claim your manspace,Writer,sammartinmusic.com/,,As Sam Martin tells the story After surviving the writing of his first book at a desk in the living room of his house while his 2-year-old son played in the background, he decided enough was enough. ... He built a backyard manspace -- 168 square feet of freedom where he called the shots and controlled the guest list. A manspace (for the uninitiated) is defined by Martin as a den or hideaway where a man can claim a piece of territory for himself. The experience introduced him to a thriving subculture surrounding these obsessive projects, which are documented in his book Manspace A Primal Guide to Marking Your Territory .,Martin is author of seven books, a number of magazine articles and a television documentary. An expert on men's issues, green building, residential arthictecture, parenting, travel and spiritual pursuits, his writing has appeared in Dwell , Metropolis and Natural Home . In the summer of 2011, he led an Inside Out Project action in Bastrop, Texas, celebrating a community's resilience after a series of deadly wildfires.
Beau,Lotto,Optical illusions show how we see,Neuroscientist, Artist,www.lottolab.org/,,Let there be perception, was evolution's proclamation, and so it was that all creatures, from honeybees to humans, came to see the world not as it is, but as was most useful. This uncomfortable place--where what an organism's brain sees diverges from what is actually out there--is what Beau Lotto and his team at Lottolab are exploring through their dazzling art-sci experiments and public illusions. Their Bee Matrix installation, for example, places a live bee in a transparent enclosure where gallerygoers may watch it seek nectar in a virtual meadow of luminous Plexiglas flowers. (Bees, Lotto will tell you, see colors much like we humans do.) The data captured isn't just discarded, either it's put to good use in probing scientific papers, and sometimes in more exhibits. At their home in London’s Science Museum , the lab holds synesthetic workshops where kids and adults make abstract paintings that computers interpret into music, and they host regular Lates--evenings of science, music and mass experiments. Lotto is passionate about involving people from all walks of life in research on perception--both as subjects and as fellow researchers. One such program, called i,scientist, in fact led to the publication of the first ever peer-reviewed scientific paper written by schoolchildren (Blackawton Bees, December 2010). It starts, Once upon a time ...,These and Lotto's other conjurings are slowly, charmingly bending the science of perception--and our perceptions of what science can be.
Chimamanda,Ngozi,The danger of a single story,Novelist,chimamanda.com,,In Nigeria, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's novel Half of a Yellow Sun has helped inspire new, cross-generational communication about the Biafran war. In this and in her other works, she seeks to instill dignity into the finest details of each character, whether poor, middle class or rich, exposing along the way the deep scars of colonialism in the African landscape. Adichie's newest book, The Thing Around Your Neck , is a brilliant collection of stories about Nigerians struggling to cope with a corrupted context in their home country, and about the Nigerian immigrant experience. Adichie builds on the literary tradition of Igbo literary giant Chinua Achebe—and when she found out that Achebe liked Half of a Yellow Sun , she says she cried for a whole day. What he said about her rings true “We do not usually associate wisdom with beginners, but here is a new writer endowed with the gift of ancient storytellers.”,“When she turned 10 and read Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart, about the clash between Igbo tradition and the British colonial way of life, everything changed ‘I realized that people who looked like me could live in books.’ She has been writing about Africa ever since.” — Washington Post
David,Logan,Tribal leadership,Professor of management,www.loganfdn.org/,,David Logan studies how people communicate within a company -- and how to harness our natural gifts to make change within organizations. He looks at emerging patterns of corporate leadership, organizational transformation, generational differences in the workplace, and team building for high-potential managers and executives. He's the co-founder and senior partner at CultureSync, a management consulting firm, and works with Fortune 500 companies, governments, and nonprofits. Much of CultureSync's work is derived from a ten-year study of over 24,000 people published at Tribal Leadership (2008), which shows how organizational culture evolves over time and how leaders can nudge it forward. He teaches management and leadership in the USC Executive MBA, and is also on the faculty at the International Centre for Leadership in Finance (ICLIF), endowed by the former prime minister of Malaysia, and on the Foundation for Medical Excellence in Portland. From 2001-2004, he served as Associate Dean of Executive Education at USC. During that time, he started the Master of Medical Management (MMM), a business degree for midcareer medical doctors. He also initiated new executive education programs (often, in concert with the USC School of Policy, Planning and Development) with organizations as diverse as the Sierra Health Foundation, Northrop Grumman, and the City of Los Angeles. He continued to oversee many programs, including one of USC's first distance learning education courses for managers in Japan and a senior executive program at Toyota. Logan is co-author of four books including Tribal Leadership and The Three Laws of Performance .,
Carolyn,Steel,How food shapes our cities,Food urbanist,www.hungrycitybook.co.uk/,,The question of how to feed cities may be one of the biggest contemporary questions, yet it's never asked we take for granted that if we walk into a store or a restaurant, food will be there, magically coming from somewhere . Yet, think of it this way just in London, every single day, 30 million meals must be provided. Without a reliable food supply, even the most modern city would collapse quickly. And most people today eat food of whose provenance they are unaware. Architect and author Carolyn Steel uses food as a medium to read cities and understand how they work. In her book Hungry City she traces -- and puts into historical context -- food's journey from land to urban table and thence to sewer. Cities, like people, are what they eat.,“Hungry City is a smorgasbord of a book dip into it and you will emerge with something fascinating.” — ReasonOnline
Stefan,Sagmeister,The power of time off,Graphic designer,www.sagmeisterwalsh.com/,,Stefan Sagmeister is no mere commercial gun for hire. Sure, he's created eye-catching graphics for clients including the Rolling Stones and Lou Reed, but he pours his heart and soul into every piece of work. His design work is at once timeless and of the moment, and his painstaking attention to the smallest details creates work that offers something new every time you look at it. While a sense of humor invariably surfaces in his designs, Sagmeister is nonetheless very serious about his work, his intimate approach and sincere thoughtfulness elevate his desig n. A genuine maverick, Sagmeister achieved notoriety in the 1990s as the designer who self-harmed in the name of craft He created a poster advertising a speaking engagement by carving the salient details onto his torso.,“Sagmeister's CD package designs are what poetry is to prose distilled, intense, cunning, evocative and utterly complete. His intentions have set a new standard.” — I.D. Magazine
Garik,Israelian,How spectroscopy could reveal alien life,Astrophysicist,www.starmus.com/dt_team/garik-israelian/,,Garik Israelian studies the spectral signatures of stars and other bodies as an astrophysicist at the Gran Telescopio Canarias, home of the world's largest optical-infrared telescope mirror, part of the Institute of Astrophysics on the Canary Islands. He has published more than 150 articles on topics such as extra-solar planets and black hole binary systems, and his observational work -- poring over the spectral data that points to the composition of distant stars -- has led to the discovery of a lithium signature that suggests Sun-sized stars gobble up their planets. In 1999, Israelian led a collaboration that found the first observational evidence that supernova explosions are responsible for the formation of black holes. He's on the verge of announcing more big news. (And he is one of the astronomers whom Brian May, the guitarist of Queen, credits with persuading him to finish his PhD after 30 years as a rock star.),
Karen,Armstrong,Let's revive the Golden Rule,Religious scholar,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Armstrong,,Religious thinker Karen Armstrong has written more than 20 books on faith and the major religions, studying what Islam, Judaism and Christianity have in common, and how our faiths shaped world history and drive current events.,A former nun, Armstrong has written two books about this experience Through the Narrow Gate , about her seven years in the convent, and The Spiral Staircase , about her subsequent spiritual awakening, when she developed her iconoclastic take on the major monotheistic religions -- and on the strains of fundamentalism common to all. She is a powerful voice for ecumenical understanding.
Tim,Brown,Designers — think big!,Designer,https//www.ideo.com/people/tim-brown,,Tim Brown is the CEO of innovation and design firm IDEO, taking an approach to design that digs deeper than the surface. Having taken over from founder David E. Kelley , Tim Brown carries forward the firm's mission of fusing design, business and social studies to come up with deeply researched, deeply understood designs and ideas -- they call it design thinking.,IDEO is the kind of firm that companies turn to when they want a top-down rethink of a business or product -- from fast food conglomerates to high-tech startups, hospitals to universities.
Parag,Khanna,Mapping the future of countries,Global Theorist, Guest Host at TEDGlobal 2012, paragkhanna.com,,Political scientist Parag Khanna travels the world with his eyes open--and has become a trenchant critic of the standard wisdom about the second and third worlds. Khanna's 2008 book, The Second World How Emerging Powers Are Redefining Global Competition in the Twenty-first Century , looks at the epic political manipulations of nations small and large struggling to end up at the top of the global heap.,In his 2011 book, How to Run The World Charting a Course to the Next Renaissance , he limns a 21st century that has much in common with the feudal 16th century, where non-state actors have as much influence on the course of world events as countries do.
Jacqueline,Novogratz,A third way to think about aid,Social entrepreneur,acumen.org/people/board/jacqueline-novogratz/,,One of the most innovative players shaping philanthropy today, Jacqueline Novogratz is redefining the way problems of poverty can be solved around the world. Drawing on her past experience in banking, microfinance and traditional philanthropy, Novogratz has become a leading proponent for financing entrepreneurs and enterprises that can bring affordable clean water, housing and healthcare, energy, agriculture and education to poor people so that they no longer have to depend on the disappointing results and lack of accountability seen in traditional charity and old-fashioned aid .,Acumen , which she founded in 2001, has an ambitious plan to change the way the world tackles poverty . Indeed, Acumen has more in common with a venture capital fund than a typical nonprofit. Rather than handing out grants, Acumen invests in early stage companies and organizations that bring critical -- often life-altering -- products and services to the world's poor. Like VCs, Acumen offers not just money, but also infrastructure and management expertise. From drip-irrigation systems in India to high quality solar lighting solutions in East Africa to a low-cost mortgage program in Pakistan, Acumen's portfolio offers important case studies for entrepreneurial efforts aimed at the vastly underserved market of those making less than $4/day.
Taryn,Simon,Photographs of secret sites,Photographer, tarynsimon.com,,With An American Index of the Hidden and Unfamiliar, Taryn Simon goes on the hunt for America's dirty secrets. Gaining entrance to places as diverse as a white tiger breeding facility, the JFK Airport quarantine area, abortion clinics and virus-research labs, Simon shows the things that are integral to America's foundation, mythology and daily functioning, but remain inaccessible or unknown to a public audience. In her earlier book, The Innocents, she shot portraits of more than 80 wrongly accused death-row inmates who were exonerated by DNA testing, and investigated photography's role in that process. But Simon's photographs stretch beyond mere documentation. Brimming with radiant light, unsettling atmosphere and sinister implications, they pulse with artistic mystery.,After having been premiered at the Tate Modern in London and at Berlin's Neue Nationalgalerie in 2011, Taryn's work, titled A Living Man Declared Dead and Other Chapters, will be at MoMA in New York from May 2nd to September 3rd, 2012.
William,Kamkwamba,How I harnessed the wind,Inventor,williamkamkwamba.typepad.com/,,William Kamkwamba, from Malawi, is a born inventor. When he was 14, he built an electricity-producing windmill from spare parts and scrap, working from rough plans he found in a library book called Using Energy and modifying them to fit his needs. The windmill he built powers four lights and two radios in his family home.,After reading about Kamkwamba on Mike McKay's blog Hactivate (which picked up the story from a local Malawi newspaper), TEDGlobal Conference Director Emeka Okafor spent several weeks tracking him down at his home in Masitala Village, Wimbe, and invited him to attend TEDGlobal on a fellowship. Onstage, Kamkwamba talked about his invention and shared his dreams to build a larger windmill to help with irrigation for his entire village, and to go back to school.
Evgeny,Morozov,How the Net aids dictatorships,Internet scientist,www.evgenymorozov.com/,,Writer Evgeny Morozov studies the political and social aspects of the Internet. Right now, he's working on a book about the Internet's role in politics -- and especially how the Web influences civic engagement and regime stability in authoritarian, closed societies or in countries in transition. Morozov writes the much-quoted Foreign Policy blog Net.Effect , and is known for debunking -- with facts, figures and sound research -- myths and media-bandwagon assumptions about the impact of the Internet and mobile technologies on politics and society. We all want to be cyber-optimists, assuming that free societies necessarily follow from free data. Morozov is careful to say that it's not quite that simple yes, social change can be empowered by new tech, but so can the policies of repressive regimes. Morozov attended TEDGlobal 2009 as one of 25 TEDGlobal Fellows .,Get the slide deck from his TEDGlobal talk >>
Jonathan,Zittrain,The Web as random acts of kindness,Net watchdog,ChillingEffects.org,,The increasing proliferation of tethered devices, from iPhones to Xboxes, is only one of countless threats to the freewheeling Internet as we know it. There's also spam, malware, misguided legislation and a drift away from what Internet law expert Jonathan Zittrain calls generativity -- a system's receptivity to unanticipated (and innovative) change instigated by myriad users. Harvard law professor Zittrain, as an investigator for the OpenNet initiative and co-founder of Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, has long studied the legal, technological and world-shaking aspects of quickly morphing virtual terrains. He performed the first large-scale tests of Internet filtering in China and Saudi Arabia in 2002. His initiatives include projects to fight malware (StopBadware) and ChillingEffects, a site designed to support open content by tracking legal threats to individual users.,“Zittrain's book, The Future of the Internet and How to Stop It, sounds ... a klaxon calling to arms everyone who believes that platforms open to user innovation should rule the world, not tethered, sterile appliances that are controlled only by their designers.” — ArsTechnica
Imogen,Heap,Wait It Out,Musician, imogenheap.com,,Classically trained composer, multi-instrumentalist and singer Imogen Heap finds her muse in unlikely places. She's mined sonic mystery from sources ranging from cardboard tubes to cheap samplers to the data gloves--not to mention her own vocal cords.,A relentless experimenter, Heap's latest song cycle is built around some 900 fan-submitted sound seeds, or samples of everyday sounds. The first six of these  Heapsongs  have been released via her website, and include the lovely Propeller Seeds, inspired by a chance meeting at a past TEDGlobal. During 2012's TEDGlobal she recorded a song in various locations around Edinburgh, anywhere that has a piano and they let me turn up with a microphone. She has also composed the orchestral score for the crowdsourced nature film  Love the Earth .
Oliver,Sacks,What hallucination reveals about our minds,Neurological anthropologist, oliversacks.com,,Oliver Sacks is a ground-breaking neurologist -- and a gifted storyteller, who has enriched our knowledge of the infinite variations of human psychology. After his pioneering work with “sleepy sickness” patients (who were in fact survivors of an early-20th-century pandemic), Sacks went on to study the connections between music and the brain, as well as disorders such as Tourette's syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and many other little-understood disorders that often count Sacks as one of their first chroniclers. Sacks is well known as a writer of such best-selling case histories as The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat , An Anthropologist on Mars , and his memoir of his early work, Awakenings , all of which have breathed new life into the dusty 19th-century tradition of the clinical anecdote. Sacks' writing, compassion, and wide-ranging knowledge catapults the genre into the 21st century and brings the far frontiers of neurological experience into the view of millions of readers worldwide. He maintains a small practice in New York City.,“Sacks's writerly form is now its own literary genre. It's easy to take his originality for granted, to forget how unlikely it is that a book about neurological disorders would become a bestseller, or that a bearded neurologist would become a cultural icon.” — Jonah Lehrer, seedmagazine.comJohn,Lloyd,An inventory of the invisible,Producer,www.imdb.com/name/nm0516032/,,John Lloyd seems to have known every brilliant and funny person in Britain, and his collaborations are legendary. He's been a fixture on the BBC for four decades, producing such classic comedies as Blackadder , Spitting Image , the BBC's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and lately QI (short for Quite Interesting), hosted by Stephen Fry (read his Reddit AMA about it). Lloyd has also written more than a dozen funny books -- including The Meaning of Liff , a collaboration with his friend Douglas Adams, which has been in print for 26 years.,“If John Cleese is the Pope of comedy, John is the Cardinal. He is the kingmaker because he is this unbelievable source of comic wisdom.” — Griff Rhys Jones, The Independent
Bjarke,Ingels,3 warp-speed architecture tales,Architect,www.big.dk/,,Bjarke Ingels is principal of BIG , based in Copenhagen. An alumnus of Rem Koolhaas' OMA practice, Ingels takes a similar approach experimenting with pure space, but never losing sight of the building as a solution to a real-world problem . His manifesto Yes Is More takes the form of a giant cartoon strip, 130 meters long, that reminds people to keep thinking big -- to see all our modern problems as challenges that inspire us. (The manifesto is now available in comic-book form .),His deeply-thought-out and often rather large works -- including several skyscrapers and mixed-use projects in a developing section of Copenhagen, plus a project for a new commercial harbor-island -- work to bring coherence to the urban fabric and to help their occupants and users lead better lives . His most famous works include the Stavanger Concert House, Tallinn’s city hall and the VM Houses. He recently won a competition to design Copenhagen’s waste-to-energy plant with a design that will place a ski slope on top of the structure.
Misha,Glenny,How global crime networks work,Underworld investigator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/misha_glenn,,In minute detail, Misha Glenny's 2008 book McMafia illuminates the byzantine outlines of global organized crime. Whether it's pot smugglers in British Columbia, oil/weapons/people traffickers in Eastern Europe, Japanese yakuza or Nigerian scammers, to research this magisterial work Glenny penetrated the convoluted, globalized and franchised modern underworld -- often at considerable personal risk. The book that resulted is an exhaustive look at an unseen industry that Glenny believes may account for 15% of the world's GDP. Legal society ignores this world at its peril, but Glenny suggests that conventional law enforcement might not be able to combat a problem whose roots lie in global instability. While covering the Central Europe beat for the Guardian and the BBC, Glenny wrote several acclaimed books on the fall of Yugoslavia and the rise of the Balkan nations. He's researching a new book on cybercrime, of which he says The key to cybercrime is what we call social engineering. Or to use the technical term for it, there's one born every minute.,Watch TED's exclusive video Q&A with Glenny Behind the Scenes of McMafia >>
Vishal,Vaid,Hypnotic South Asian improv music,Musician,www.imdb.com/name/nm1784960/,,Vishal Vaid has trained in the traditional art of ghazal (an ancient form of poetry, often performed in song) since he was three years old. Today, his performances blend Eastern and Western, ancient and contemporary to create spellbinding music. He has performed throughout the world, appearing on television shows in New York, London, India, and Morocco, and has worked with renowned artists Anoushka Shankar, Bill Laswell, Michael Franti, and Karsh Kale. In addition, he provided vocals to the electronic-oriented band Bhoom Shankar formed by Karsh Kale and credited with beginning the popular genre of music known as Asian Massive within the electronica community.,“Vaid takes the classical tradition seriously, and perhaps modernizes it in a controlled way.” — Amardeep Singh
Rebecca,Saxe,How we read each other's minds,Cognitive neuroscientist,saxelab.mit.edu/,,While still a graduate student, Rebecca Saxe made a breakthrough discovery There's a specific region in our brain that becomes active when we contemplate the workings of other minds. Now, at MIT's Saxelab, she and her team have been further exploring her grad-school finding, exploring how it may help us understand conditions such as autism. As Saxe delves into the complexities of social cognition, this young scientist is working toward revealing the enigma of human minds interacting.,“One of the most astonishing discoveries in the field of human cognitive neuroscience.” — Nancy Kanwisher, the Ellen Swallow Richards Professor of Brain and Cognitive Sciences at MIT
Lewis,Pugh,How I swam the North Pole,Coldwater swimmer,lewispugh.com/,,Lewis Gordon Pugh loves to pioneer new swimming routes around or between landmarks once thought unswimmable. In 2006, he swam the drought-stricken Thames, also that year he became the first swimmer to do a long-distance swim in all five oceans of the world. The following year, he made the first long-distance swim across the North Pole -- where climate change made the ice temporarily disappear. Heading into the second decade of his swimming career, he's regarded as the greatest cold-water swimmer in history. His swims have given him a sea-level view of our planet, and inspired him to do his bit to help preserve it. He left a career in maritime law to become a public speaker on environmental issues with his group, Polar Defence Project -- and of course to plan more astonishing swims and treks. In September 2008, Pugh and Robbie Hedgus kayaked across the Arctic Ocean into the polar ice pack, to raise awareness of the thinning sea ice and the dangers of climate change in the Arctic and across the world. And at the end of May 2010 he swam 1 kilometer across Pumori, a meltwater lake situated next to the Khumbu Glacier on Mount Everest, at an altitude of 5300 meters, to draw attention to the melting of the Asian glaciers. He completed the swim -- the highest any person has undertaken -- in less than 23 minutes. Glaciers are not just ice they are a lifeline, they provide water to 2 billion people, and we need to protect them, he says.,“Lewis has displayed remarkable determination, professionalism and single-mindedness in pursuit of his goals.” — Tony Blair
James,Balog,Time-lapse proof of extreme ice loss,Photographer, jamesbalog.com,,To see the natural world through James Balog's lens is to see it as an artist would -- through fresh eyes, as if for the first time, with no preconceived notions. His photos of jungle animals, for instance, are arresting in their directness, simplicity, even sensuality. His subjects assume the same weight and importance as a human portrait sitter, and demand (as a human subject would) that the viewer engage with them rather than simply spectate. His newest work is no less powerful, no less engaging -- and it carries an urgent message. For several years, Balog has been going up north to shoot the half-alive ice of the mammoth glaciers for his Extreme Ice Survey, a look at the shocking effects of abrupt climate change in Alaska, Greenland and Iceland. Soaring, dripping, glowing and crumbling, arctic ice under Balog's eye requires the viewer to engage. A new Nova/PBS TV special and a new book, Extreme Ice Now , are helping him spread the word that this glorious world is degrading at a speed we couldn't imagine until we saw it through his eyes.,“Each new series by James Balog represents a quantum leap in creativity, which takes us deeper into the ultimate mystery of humanity's relationship to the natural world.” — James Nachtwey, photographer and TED Prize winner
Steve,Truglia,A leap from the edge of space,Stuntman,www.stevetruglia.com/,,Steve Truglia became a professional stuntman in 1996, after two decades as a reservist in the UK Special Forces. Outside of his stunt work in TV and movies, he's developed a nice line in jaw-dropping records. In 2002, he became the UK's deepest freediver, performing a hold-your-breath dive to 76 meters. In 2004, he set the Guinness World Record for the fastest abseil over 100 meters, covering the distance in 8.9 seconds. And (ouch) he holds the unofficial UK Full Body Burn fire record of 2 mins and 5 secs. But the stunt he's now training for is the most astonishing of all He's planning to break the record for extreme-high-altitude parachute jump, from a balloon at 120,000 feet (36.5 kilometers). Truglia will wear multiple parachutes for the many-stage descent, including a minutes-long freefall through the stratosphere at the speed of sound, while clad in a full spacesuit. And the challenges of this modern jump include more earthly issues -- tweaking equipment, getting permissions, securing funding and gambling on the weather.,“It takes a certain type of person to want to leap from the edge of space and plummet to the ground at more than 700mph, but Truglia -- who made his name doing stunts in the Bond movies -- believes he has what it takes.” — Joseph Dunn, Sunday Times
Evan,Grant,Making sound visible through cymatics,Creative technologist, evangrant.com,,Evan Grant is a creative technologist and founder of arts and technology collective seeper . Founded in 1998, seeper's nucleus is the pursuit of cognitive essence exploring natural user interaction and ubiquitous technologies, to create and distill artistically immersive, multisensory experiences and memories. Evan has a heritage in sound, lighting and interaction, software and hardware, design and installation. Exploring multisensory immersion through the use of tangible, gestural and kinetic interaction, to allow a new range of interfaces devices and experiences for users. In the past 12 months Evan has worked with the likes of Punch Drunk Theatricals, Glastonbury Festival, Hewlett Packard, BFI Southbank, Toyota, Aldeburgh Music, Sony PlayStation and many more innovative brands and arts-based organisations.,
Geoff,Mulgan,Post-crash, investing in a better world,Social commentator,youngfoundation.org › ... › Who we are › Former staff,,Geoff Mulgan is director of the Young Foundation, a center for social innovation, social enterprise and public policy with a 50-year history of creating new organisations and pioneering ideas in fields as varied as aging, education, healthcare and poverty reduction.,Before the Young Foundation, Geoff Mulgan has held various roles in the UK government including director of the Government's Strategy Unit and head of policy in the Prime Minister's office, and he was the founder of the think-tank Demos. He is chairing a Carnegie Inquiry into the Future of Civil Society in the UK and Ireland. His most recent book is The Art of Public Strategy Mobilising Power and Knowledge for the Common Good.
Joshua,Silver,Adjustable liquid-filled eyeglasses,Optical innovator,www.vdwoxford.org/about/,,Joshua Silver reckons that around half the world's population needs corrective eyewear, yet has no access to it. His ultra-utilitarian spectacle design relies on the principle that the fatter the lens, the more powerful it becomes. The lenses are filled with liquid, and can be adjusted to different strengths by adding or removing fluid from tiny syringes on each arm, then locked to the right strength.,More than 30,000 of his lenses have been distributed in 15 countries, and a new model will scale that number up to millions.
Cary,Fowler,One seed at a time, protecting the future of food,Biodiversity archivist,https//www.croptrust.org/about-crop-trust/staff/advisors/,,Tucked away under the snows of the Arctic Circle is the Svalbard Global Seed Vault. Sometimes called the doomsday vault, it's nothing less than a backup of the world's biological diversity in a horticultural world fast becoming homogenous in the wake of a flood of genetically identical GMOs. For Cary Fowler, a self-described Tennessee farm boy, this vault is the fulfillment of a long fight against shortsighted governments, big business and potential disaster. Inside the seed vault, Fowler and his team work on preserving wheat, rice and hundreds of other crops that have nurtured humanity since our ancestors began tending crops -- and ensuring that the world's food supply has the diversity needed to stand against the omnipresent threats of disease, climate change and famine.,“For individual crop varieties, doomsday does come every day. We want to put an end to that.” — Cary Fowler, Washington Post
Natasha,Tsakos,A multimedia theatrical adventure,Artist, natashatsakos.com,,“A bitterwseet, funny, tragic world with existentialist shades of Samuel Beckett and especially Marcel Marceau.” — Octavio Roca, Miami New Times,
Hans,Rosling,Let my dataset change your mindset,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Eric,Giler,A demo of wireless electricity,Wireless electrician,witricity.com/.../tedx,,Eric Giler heads WiTricity, a startup with a product straight out of science fiction wireless electricity , beamed from a base station to your electrical devices. The technology was developed by an MIT team led by theoretical physicist Marin Soljaƒçiƒá (who won a MacArthur geniusgrant last year). Now, WiTricity is one of several startups developing tech to safely transmit power through the air -- and potentially untether our electronic age. The technology at the core of WiTricity's approach is called magnetic coupled resonance, which can provoke an energetic response at a distance between two coils, one powered, the other not . If the two coils are correctly tuned to one another, energy flows from the connected one (installed, say, on the ceiling of a room) into the other (inside, say, your laptop). Giler presented a demo of it at TEDGlobal 2009 -- and several companies are already planning to add it to their phones, cameras, TVs and other devices.,“A feat of physics so subtle and so profound it could change the world.” — Paul Hochman, Fast Company
Dan,Pink,The puzzle of motivation,Career analyst, danpink.com,,With a trio of influential bestsellers, Dan Pink has changed the way companies view the modern workplace. In the pivotal A Whole New Mind , Pink identifies a sea change in the global workforce -- the shift of an information-based corporate culture to a conceptual base, where creativity and big-picture design dominates the landscape. His latest book, The Adventures of Johnny Bunko , is an evolutionary transformation of the familiar career guide. Replacing linear text with a manga-inspired comic, Pink outlines six career laws vastly differing from the ones you've been taught. Members of the Johnny Bunko online forum participated in an online contest to create the seventh law -- stay hungry.,A contributing editor for Wired , Pink is working on a new book on the science and economics of motivation for release in late 2009.
Emmanuel,Jal,The music of a war child,Hip-hop artist,emmanueljal.com/,,Hip-hop star Emmanuel Jal first exploded into dance halls with Gua in 2005. His music has energized music lovers of all ethnicities and nations. But Jal's life story is far darker. Swept up into the Sudanese rebel army at age seven, he finally escaped with 400 fellow soldiers, 16 of whom survived, the rest succumbing to starvation, ambush and animal attacks. Rather than resort to cannibalism, Jal ate snails and vultures until he arrived at a refugee camp, where he was adopted by aid worker Emma McCune and later sent to England. Jal found an outlet for his turbulent life story in music. His lyrics tell moving and disturbing stories, but wrap them into hope and love. He is active in charity work across Africa, fighting against poverty and child warfare. War Child, his biography, was released in early 2009 along with a documentary film.,“Jal's narrative flows between darkness and light, the terror that befell his family and kinsmen, the horrors he went on to inflict upon others, and a deep-seated desire to set things right.” — Washington Post
Janine,Benyus,Biomimicry in action,Science writer, innovation consultant, conservationist,biomimicry.net › Biomimicry 3.8,,In the world envisioned by science author Janine Benyus, a locust's ability to avoid collision within a roiling cloud of its brethren informs the design of a crash-resistant car, a self-cleaning leaf inspires a new kind of paint, one that dries in a pattern that enables simple rainwater to wash away dirt , and organisms capable of living without water open the way for vaccines that maintain potency even without refrigeration -- a hurdle that can prevent life-saving drugs from reaching disease-torn communities. Most important, these cool tools from nature pull off their tricks while still managing to preserve the environment that sustains them , a life-or-death lesson that humankind is in need of learning.,As a champion of biomimicry , Benyus has become one of the most important voices in a new wave of designers and engineers inspired by nature. Her most recent project, AskNature , explores what happens if we think of nature by function and looks at what organisms can teach us about design.
Paul,Romer,Why the world needs charter cities,New-growth economist, chartercities.org,,Stanford economist Paul Romer believes in the power of ideas. He first studied how to speed up the discovery and implementation of new technologies. But to address the big problems we'll face this century -- insecurity, harm to the environment, global poverty -- new technologies will not be enough. We must also speed up the discovery and implementation of new rules, of new ideas about how people interact. Throughout human history, big improvements in systems of rules took place when new governments entered the scene. In today's world, this process has been largely shut down. To bring it back to life, Romer proposes that we create new cities where people can go to escape from bad rules and opt in to new and better ones. With better rules, people can be safe, self-interest can protect the environment, and investment can bring families all the resources that the modern world has to offer.,“Paul Romer has had a massive and profound impact on modern economic thinking and policymaking. ... [His work] transforms economics from a ‘dismal science' that describes a world of scarcity and diminishing returns into a discipline that reveals a path toward constant improvement and unlimited potential. Ideas, in Romer's formulation, really do have consequences. Big ones.” — ReasonOnline
Michael,Pritchard,How to make filthy water drinkable,Inventor,www.michaelpritchard.com/,,During the twin tragedies of the Asian tsunami and Hurricane Katrina, Ipswich water-treatment expert Michael Pritchard winced helplessly at televised coverage of throngs of refugees waiting for days for a simple drink of clean water. Stricken by the chronic failure of aid agencies to surmount this basic challenge, Pritchard decided to do something about it. Using a non-chemical nano-filtration hollow fiber membrane with 15 nanometer pores (it is designed to block viruses), the Lifesaver bottle can make the most revolting swamp water drinkable in seconds. Better still, a single long-lasting filter can clean 6,000 liters of water. Given the astronomical cost of shipping water to disaster areas, Pritchard's Lifesaver bottle could turn traditional aid models on their heads.,“On the outside, it looks like an ordinary sports bottle. On the inside, there's a miracle an extremely advanced filtration system that makes murky water filled with deadly viruses and bacteria completely clean in just seconds.” — Allison Barrie, FoxNews.comWillard,Wigan,Hold your breath for micro-sculpture,Micro-sculptor,www.willard-wigan.com/,,Willard Wigan has immortalized the Obama family in the eye of a needle and Muhammad Ali on the head of a match. In producing sculptures so incredibly small, he works under a microscope and employs ingenious tools, such as a fly's hair or an ex-girlfriend's eyelash for paintbrushes. This passion for the diminutive stems from feelings of insignificance in Wigan's childhood. He was severely dyslexic but undiagnosed, and his teachers' harsh words drove him to hide in a nearby shed where he made shoes and hats for his friends, the ants. Today, his art has earned him national honors and critical acclaim, proving that some treasures can't be seen with the naked eye.,“It was a fantasy world I escaped to where my dyslexia didn't hold me back and my teachers couldn't criticize me. That's how my career as a micro-sculptor began.” — Willard Wigan
Elaine,Morgan,I believe we evolved from aquatic apes,Aquatic ape theorist,www.elainemorgan.org/,,Television writer and scientific theorist Elaine Morgan may have been known for penning the popular British TV series Dr. Finlay's Casebook , but for decades the Welsh feminist writer championed human evolutionary theories using aquatic species. She wrote six books about the aquatic ape theory, derived from ancient Greek philosophies about human evolution. Taking a less male-centric approach to evolutionary theory, Morgan's adventure was chronicled in the 1998 BBC documentary The Aquatic Ape . She was an award-winning television writer (she won two BAFTAs and Writers' Guild honors) for Campion, How Green Was My Valley and Testament of Youth . Morgan died in July 2013 at age 92.,“For my money, she is more scientific than Genesis, more up-to-date than Darwin, more fun than Ardrey, and she writes better than Desmond Morris.” — John Rowan Wilson, Sunday Telegraph
Golan,Levin,Art that looks back at you,Experimental audio-visual artist,golancourses.net/,,Having worked as an academic at MIT and a researcher specializing in computer technology and software engineering, Golan Levin now spends most of his time working as a performance artist. Rest assured his education hasn't gone to waste, however, as Levin blends high tech and customized software programs to create his own extraordinary audio and visual compositions . The results are inordinately experimental sonic and visual extravaganzas from the furthest left of the field.,Many of his pieces force audience participation, such as Dialtones A Telesymphony , a concert from 2001 entirely composed of the choreographed ringtones of his audience . Regularly exhibiting pieces in galleries around the world, and also working as an Assistant Professor of Electronic Time-Based Art at Carnegie Mellon University, Levin is unapologetically pushing boundaries to define a brave new world of what is possible.
Alain,de,A kinder, gentler philosophy of success,Philosopher,alaindebotton.com/,,It started in 1997, when Alain de Botton turned away from writing novels and instead wrote a touching extended essay titled How Proust Can Change Your Life , which became an unlikely blockbuster in the self-helpcategory. His subsequent books take on some of the fundamental worries of modern life (am I happy? where exactly do I stand?), informed by his deep reading in philosophy and by a novelist's eye for small, perfect moments. His newest book is The Pleasures and Sorrows of Work . In 2008, de Botton helped start the School of Life in London, a social enterprise determined to make learning and therapy relevant in today's uptight culture. His goal is (through any of his mediums) to help clients learn how to live wisely and well.,“He writes with an elegance philosophers might envy ... We're painlessly instructed while we read for fun.” — SF Chronicle
Gordon,Brown,Wiring a web for global good,British Prime Minister,gordonandsarahbrown.com/,,During his long term of office, former UK prime minister Gordon Brown became one of the world's most experienced political leaders, with a deep understanding of the global economy based on 10 years' experience as Great Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer. He has been a key architect of the G8's agreements on poverty and climate change, and has provided a passionate voice to encourage the developed world to aid struggling African countries. He is an advocate of global solutions for global problems -- through both the reinvention of international institution and the advancement of a global ethics . While prime minister, Brown promoted technology as a tool for economic (and environmental) recovery. With his charge to count the carbon and the pennies, research on electric cars and residential energy efficiency are slated to become a major part of the UK's recovery plan. He pushed for universal broadband and a general increase in spending on science . And he sought to use new communication tools like Twitter and YouTube as a means to communicate government policy.,“Brown does not run from the image of the homme sérieux.” — New York Review of Books
Nina,Jablonski,Skin color is an illusion,Anthropologist,sites.psu.edu/ninajablonski/,,Much of what we consider our humanity is imbued in our skin, Nina Jablonski tells us. This insight came to her in 1981, as she observed a jittery anatomy class warm to a cadaver only after cutting through its skin. As it turns out, marvels abound of this sweaty, hardwearing, social -- and underappreciated -- organ. Many are collected in her book, Skin A Natural History, a look at what makes our skin unique and, perhaps, more important than we realize. A fascination with the multicolored, multi-talented human hide fits Jablonski, a truly eclectic scientist. She's also a paleontologist and primatologist, studying the form, behavior and diet of mammals in light of climate change and evolution. She teaches at Penn State and recently found the world's oldest chimpanzee fossil.,“Nina Jablonski gives us the best and most fascinating account of everything that you might want to know about the packaging of our anatomy.” — Jared Diamond
Jim,Fallon,Exploring the mind of a killer,Neurobiologist,www.faculty.uci.edu/profile.cfm?faculty..,,Jim Fallon has taught neuroscience and psychiatry grand rounds at the University of California Irvine for thirty-five years. Through research he explores the way genetic and perinatal environmental factors affect the way the brain gets built -- and then how an individual's experience further shapes his or her development. He lectures and writes on creativity, consciousness and culture, and has made key contributions to our understanding of adult stems and stroke, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.,Only lately has Fallon turned his research toward the subject of psychopaths -- particularly those who kill. With PET scans and EEGs, he's beginning to uncover the deep, underlying traits that make people violent and murderous . In his talk at TEDDIY at TED@PalmSprings, he shared a surprise discovery about his own family that prompted him to bring his work home.
Daniel,Kraft,A better way to harvest bone marrow,Physician scientist,singularityu.org/bio/daniel-kraft/,,Daniel Kraft is a Stanford- and Harvard-trained physician-scientist with over 20 years of experience in clinical practice, biomedical research and innovation. Dr. Kraft chairs the Medicine track for Singularity University and is Executive Director and curator for the FutureMed, a program which explores convergent, exponentially developing technologies and their potential in biomedicine and healthcare. Dr. Kraft is board certified in both Internal Medicine and Pediatrics following residency at the Massachusetts General Hospital, and completed Stanford fellowships in hematology/oncology & bone marrow transplantation, and extensive research in stem cell biology and regenerative medicine. He has multiple scientific publications, medical device, immunology and stem cell-related patents through faculty positions with Stanford University School of Medicine and as clinical faculty for the pediatric bone marrow transplantation service at University of California San Francisco. Dr. Kraft recently founded IntelliMedicine, focused on connected, data driven, and integrated personalized medicine. He is the inventor of the MarrowMiner, an FDA approved device for the minimally invasive harvest of bone marrow, and founded RegenMed Systems, a company developing technologies to enable adult stem cell based regenerative therapies. Daniel is an avid pilot and serves as a officer and flight surgeon with an F-16 Squadron in the California Air National Guard. He has conducted research on aerospace medicine that was published with NASA, with whom he was a finalist for astronaut selection.,
Olafur,Eliasson,Playing with space and light,Sculptor of light and space, olafureliasson.net,,Denmark-born Icelander Olafur Eliasson has taken the art world by storm -- and the meteorological dimensions of that statement are appropriate. His immensely popular The Weather Project, at London's Tate Museum, immersed spectators in an artificial mirrored environment with its own looming sun (and its own analog of London fog) , and attracted 2 million visitors in the process. In the summer of 2008, his four massive waterfalls spectacularly punctuated key sites in New York's harbor -- including one pouring from beneath the Brooklyn Bridge. Eliasson's works emphasize tricks of light, refraction and scale, and tend to involve each viewer in his or her own unique experience , as in Beauty, which, by passing light through a wall of fine mist, produces a different rainbow when viewed from different points in the gallery. And his works engage passers-by in urban environments -- Eye See You, a project for Louis Vuitton (and meant to publicize 121 Ethiopia , an African nonprofit Eliasson co-founded with his wife), grabs viewers in the street with a beam of light shot from the window by an eye-shaped lamp.,“Many of his best-known works explore architecture and the mechanics of perception, almost as if the fantastical imaginings of Buckminster Fuller were reinterpreted by a cognitive scientist.” — Michael Joseph Gross, New York magazine
Stewart,Brand,4 environmental 'heresies',Environmentalist, futurist,sb.longnow.org,,With biotech accelerating four times faster than digital technology, the revival of extinct species is becoming possible. Stewart Brand plans to not only bring species back but restore them to the wild.,Brand is already a legend in the tech industry for things he’s created the Whole Earth Catalog , The WELL, the Global Business Network, the Long Now Foundation, and the notion that “information wants to be free.” Now Brand, a lifelong environmentalist, wants to re-create -- or “de-extinct” -- a few animals that’ve disappeared from the planet.
Kary,Mullis,A next-gen cure for killer infections,Biochemist, karymullis.com,,In the early 1980s, Kary Mullis developed the polymerase chain reaction , an elegant way to make copies of a DNA strand using the enzyme polymerase and some basic DNA building blocks. The process opened the door to more in-depth study of DNA -- like the Human Genome Project. Mullis shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing this technique.,As he tells it, after winning the Nobel Prize, his next career move was to learn how to surf. It's typical of Mullis, whose scientific method is to get deeply curious about a topic, work it out from first principles, and then imagine the next giant leap forward. As he puts it in his Nobel autobiography , revised several times since 1993, I read a lot, and think a lot, and I can talk about almost anything. Being a Nobel laureate is a license to be an expert in lots of things as long as you do your homework.
Sophal,Ear,Escaping the Khmer Rouge,Development economist,sophalear.com/,,TED Fellow Sophal Ear is an Assistant Professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the US Naval Postgraduate School . He has taught on the hospital ship USNS Mercy in support of the Pacific Partnership 2008. He completed his postdoc at the Maxwell School at Syracuse University, where he taught Policy and Administration in Developing Countries. Before entering academia, he consulted for the World Bank and worked for the United Nations Development Programme. Early in his career he traveled to the West Bank and Gaza, and to Algeria, on social protection projects, where he gained a firsthand understanding of the realities of foreign aid on a national scale. Having grown up on Aid to Families with Dependent Children, he personally knew there were pitfalls to welfare system. He came to the US at the age of 10 as a Cambodian refugee via France after his mother escaped with him and his four siblings from the Khmer Rouge by posing as a Vietnamese woman. She recounted her journey to him in an article in The New York Times .,
Tom,Wujec,3 ways the brain creates meaning,Designer,tomwujec.com,,Tom Wujec is a Fellow at Autodesk, the makers of design software for engineers, filmmakers, designers. At Autodesk, he has worked on software including SketchBook Pro, PortfolioWall and Maya (which won an Academy Award for its contribution to the film industry). As a Fellow, he helps companies work in the emerging field of business visualization, the art of using images, sketches and infographics to help teams solve complex problems as a group.,He's the author of several books, including Five-Star Mind Games and Puzzles to Stimulate Your Creativity and Imagination .
Eames,Demetrios,The design genius of Charles + Ray Eames,Artist,www.eamesdemetrios.com/,,The Kcymaerxthaere is a global work of three-dimensional fiction that overlays alternative stories onto the physical world. Eames Demetrios, the project's Geographer-at-Large, travels the world exploring stories of imaginary peoples, movements, even physical laws -- and then memorializing these stories on bronze plaques. Kymaerica, which Demetrios references in the talk, is one area within Kcymaerxthaere.,Demetrios is the grandson of Charles and Ray Eames, the design team whose classic chairs, photographs and films epitomize the boundless creativity of the midcentury modern period. Demetrios is active in preserving the Eames legacy , as principal of the Eames Office , a clearinghouse of resources for researching, shopping and exploring the work of these legendary creative people. Demetrios was instrumental in creating the interactive version of the Eames' groundbreaking film Powers of Ten and making the film A Gathering of Elephants .
Daniel,Libeskind,17 words of architectural inspiration,Architect, daniel-libeskind.com,,A true renaissance man, Daniel Libeskind possesses a staggering array of creative interests -- he has been a free-verse poet, an opera set designer, a virtuoso musician. When he finally settled on architecture, it was not long (in architect-years, anyway) before he had taken the skylines of the world by storm . His many buildings include the recently opened Contemporary Jewish Museum in San Francisco, in the deep footsteps of his acclaimed design for the Jewish Museum Berlin -- his first major building project, and one of the most visited museums in Europe. He also created the spectacular extension to the Denver Art Museum (completed in 2006), and construction is under way on a massive retail complex on the strip in Las Vegas. Libeskind's ambitious and highly controversial design for the rebuilt World Trade Center is perhaps his most well known project, and despite almost a decade of political wrangling and bureaucratic whittling, he insists that the final design will retain the spirit of his original renderings .,“In his best work, he doles out revelations to the patient observer. And he is youthful enough -- not to mention ambitious, self-critical, and lucky enough -- to make me believe that he hasn’t peaked yet.” — Justin Davidson, New York Magazine
Gever,Tulley,Life lessons through tinkering,Tinkerer,www.tinkeringschool.com/,,Gever Tulley writes the best Twitters  Just landed my paraglider in an empty field behind Santa 8arbara. ... Making amazing tshirts with a laser cutter at the maker faire in austin. ... Washing fruit, putting sheets on bunkbeds, and grinding up aluminum foil in a cheap blender ... Updating the school blog, trying to figure out how many cubic feet of air are in a 5 gallon cylinder at 200 PSI. ... Trying to figure out if the tinker kids are going to be able to get molten iron from magnetite sand ...,A software engineer, Gever Tulley is the co-founder of the Tinkering School, a weeklong camp where lucky kids get to play with their very own power tools. He's interested in helping kids learn how to build, solve problems, use new materials and hack old ones for new purposes. He's also a certified paragliding instructor.
Arthur,Benjamin,Teach statistics before calculus!,Mathemagician,www.benjaminmath.com/,,Arthur Benjamin makes numbers dance. In his day job, he's a professor of math at Harvey Mudd College, in his other day job, he's a Mathemagician, taking the stage in his tuxedo to perform high-speed mental calculations, memorizations and other astounding math stunts. It's part of his drive to teach math and mental agility in interesting ways, following in the footsteps of such heroes as Martin Gardner .,Benjamin is the co-author, with Michael Shermer , of Secrets of Mental Math (which shares his secrets for rapid mental calculation), as well as the co-author of the MAA award-winning Proofs That Really Count The Art of Combinatorial Proof . For a glimpse of his broad approach to math, see the list of research talks on his website, which seesaws between high-level math (such as his Vandermonde's Determinant and Fibonacci SAWs, presented at MIT in 2004) and engaging math talks for the rest of us (An Amazing Mathematical Card Trick).
Ray,Zahab,My trek to the South Pole,Endurance runner, rayzahab.com,,Extreme runner Ray Zahab and his Impossible2Possible team make a habit of dropping jaws. A month before TED2009, he made the fastest unsupported trip to the South Pole on foot and snowshoes . Trekking in moon boots, while his partners Kevin Vallely and Richard Weber skiied alongside, Zahab liveblogged the trip for an audience of schoolchildren to raise awareness of the Antarctic environment.,He's the author of Running for My Life , a story of his metamorphosis from a pack-a-day smoker to an endurance athlete capable of such extreme feats as a 7,500 kilometer run across the Sahara. His treks are driven by an intense personal feeling for the environment, the Sahara trek, for instance, highlighted the worldwide challenge of water.
Katherine,Fulton,You are the future of philanthropy,New philanthropist,monitorinstitute.com,,Billions of dollars are spent on philanthropy each year, but the way they are spent is changing rapidly. Katherine Fulton's team at Monitor Group has been tracking these changes, and she has become an eloquent advocate for the “New Philanthropy,” surprising audiences with her insights on an underreported phenomenon of momentous significance. As president of Monitor Institute, she works with today's most imaginative, entrepreneurial leaders (not just in philanthropy, but also in business and government) to pioneer breakthrough next practices in how complex social problems are framed, confronted, funded and ultimately solved. As a result of her efforts, she has been awarded both a Nieman Fellowship at Harvard University and a Lyndhurst Foundation prize for community service. Her innovative course design at Duke University was featured in Time magazine and her work on the future of journalism in Columbia Journalism Review. She is also co-author of several books, among them Investing for Social and Environmental Impact A Blueprint for Catalyzing an Emerging Industry , Looking Out for the Future An Orientation for Twenty-First Century Philanthropists and What If? The Art of Scenario Thinking for Nonprofits .,
Paul,Collier,New rules for rebuilding a broken nation,Economist,users.ox.ac.uk/~econpco,,Paul Collier studies the political and economic problems of the very poorest countries 50 societies, many in sub-Saharan Africa, that are stagnating or in decline, and taking a billion people down with them . His book The Bottom Billion identifies the four traps that keep such countries mired in poverty, and outlines ways to help them escape, with a mix of direct aid and external support for internal change.,From 1998 to 2003, Collier was the director of the World Bank's Development Research Group, he now directs the Centre for the Study of African Economies at Oxford, where he continues to advise policymakers.
Philip,Zimbardo,The psychology of time,Psychologist, EverydayHeroism.org,,Philip Zimbardo knows what evil looks like. After serving as an expert witness during the Abu Ghraib trials, he wrote The Lucifer Effect Understanding How Good People Turn Evil . From Nazi comic books to the tactics of used-car salesmen, he explores a wealth of sources in trying to explain the psychology of evil .,A past president of the American Psychological Association and a professor emeritus at Stanford, Zimbardo retired in 2008 from lecturing, after 50 years of teaching his legendary introductory course in psychology . In addition to his work on evil and heroism, Zimbardo recently published The Time Paradox , exploring different cultural and personal perspectives on time. Still well-known for his controversial Stanford Prison Experiment, Zimbardo in his new research looks at the psychology of heroism . He asks, What pushes some people to become perpetrators of evil, while others act heroically on behalf of those in need?
Qi,Zhang,An electrifying organ performance,Organist,etox.ucdavis.edu/directory/faculty/zhang-qi/,,Originating from Shanghai, China, Qi Zhang graduated from the Shanghai Conservatory of Music with a Bachelor's in Electronic Organ. She is currently a Master of Music student at University of Southern California Thornton School of Music, studying organ performance with Professor Cherry Rhodes. Zhang has been playing since the age of nine, performing in various venus in Shanghai, nationwide and overseas, including an electronic organ concert at Shanghai Concert Hall. She won First Prize in the International Electronic Organ Competition in Spain in 2004.,“The music being played sounds nothing like an organ, it's a symphonic tune reminiscent of a Walt Disney World fireworks show. But all being played by her! Whoa! Drums, percussion, horns, strings ... incredible.” — Brian Stokes
Catherine,Mohr,Surgery's past, present and robotic future,Roboticist,catherinemohr.com,,Catherine Mohr began her career as an engineer, working for many years with Paul MacCready at AeroVironment to develop alternative-energy vehicles and high-altitude aircraft. Her midcareer break medical school, where she invented a brilliantly simple device, the LapCap, that makes laproscopic surgeries safer.,Mohr now oversees the development of next-generation surgical robots and robotic procedures, as the director of medical research at Intuitive Surgical Inc., where she's the clinical design leader for the DaVinci Surgical Robotic system. She also works at Stanford's School of Medicine, where she studies simulation-based teaching methods to teach clinical skills to budding doctors. And she's a senior scientific advisor to the GlobalSolver Foundation, an innovative funding and study group that looks at ways to match up scientists and money to help the world's oceans.
Diane,Benscoter,How cults rewire the brain,Deprogrammer,www.dianebenscoter.com/,,At 17, Diane Benscoter joined The Unification Church -- the religious cult whose members are commonly known as “Moonies.” After five long years, her distressed family arranged to have her deprogrammed. Benscoter then left The Unification Church, and was so affected by her experience that she became a deprogrammer herself. She devoted her time to extracting others from cults, until she was arrested for kidnapping. The shock of her arrest caused her to abandon her efforts for almost 20 years. Now, after decades of research and study, Diane has begun to speak about her experiences. She recently completed a memoir describing her years as a member of The Unification Church and as a deprogrammer. Furthermore, she has embarked on a new project to define “extremist viral memetic infections”. She believes that defining extremism as a memetic infection, from a cognitive neurological perspective, might allow us to develop better memes that would inoculate against the memes of extremist thought. These inoculating memes could prevent the spread of extremist viral memetic infections and their inherent dangers.,
Clay,Shirky,How social media can make history,Social Media Theorist,www.shirky.com,,Clay Shirky's work focuses on the rising usefulness of networks -- using decentralized technologies such as peer-to-peer sharing, wireless, software for social creation, and open-source development. New technologies are enabling new kinds of cooperative structures to flourish as a way of getting things done in business, science, the arts and elsewhere, as an alternative to centralized and institutional structures, which he sees as self-limiting. In his writings and speeches he has argued that a group is its own worst enemy.,Shirky is an adjunct professor in New York University?s graduate Interactive Telecommunications Program , where he teaches a course named “ Social Weather .” He?s the author of several books. This spring at the TED headquarters in New York, he gave an impassioned talk against SOPA/PIPA that saw 1 million views in 48 hours.
Jane,Poynter,Life in Biosphere 2,Biospherian,janepoynter.com/,,Jane Poynter is one of only eight people to live in Biosphere 2 for two years. In 1991, she and seven others were locked in a three-acre, hermetically-sealed environment in the Arizona desert. Nothing was allowed in or out, and everything had to be recycled. Poynter, and the rest of the team, endured dangerously low oxygen levels and constant hunger, but they survived -- something many scientists said was impossible. After leaving Biosphere 2, Poynter went on to found Paragon Space Development Corporation, along with her former fellow biospherian and now husband, Taber MacCallum. Paragon develops technologies that might allow humans to live in extreme environments such as outer space and underwater. As president of Paragon, Poynter has had experiments flown on the International Space Station, Russian Mir Space Station and US Space Shuttle, as well as working on underwater technologies with the US Navy. However, Poynter has not given up on her homeland -- Biosphere 1. She continues to consult on and write about sustainable development and new green technologies. In concert with the World Bank, she has worked on projects to mitigate climate change and to grow crops in typically arid and hostile regions of Africa and Central America. Through talks and appearances, she builds awareness of the fragile state of the environment. After all, she knows what it's like to watch your biosphere begin to break down.,The New York Times looks back on the Biosphere 2 story >>
Richard,St.,Success is a continuous journey,Marketer, success analyst,www.richardstjohn.com,,Richard St. John was on his way to the TED conference when a girl on the plane asked him, What really leads to success? Even though he had achieved some success, he couldn't explain how he did it. So he spent the next ten years researching success and asking over 500 extraordinarily successful people in many fields what helped them succeed. After analyzing, sorting, and correlating millions of words of research, and building one of the most organized databases on the subject of success, he discovered The 8 Traits Successful People Have in Common and wrote the bestseller 8 To Be Great .,In his books and talks,he shares a wealth of wisdom from the world's most successful people -- knowledge that can help others succeed in their own way, whether it's escaping poverty, building a business, raising a family, or changing the world.
Robert,Full,Learning from the gecko's tail,Biologist,polypedal.berkeley.edu,,UC Berkeley biologist Robert Full is fascinated by the motion of creatures like cockroaches, crabs and geckos having many legs, unusual feet or talented tails. He has led an effort to demonstrate the value of learning from Nature by the creating interdisciplinary collaborations of biologists, engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists from academia and industry. He founded CiBER , the Center for interdisciplinary Bio-inspiration in Education and Research, and the Poly-PEDAL Laboratory , which studies the Performance, Energetics and Dynamics of Animal Locomotion (PEDAL) in many-footed creatures (Poly).,His research shows how studying a diversity of animals leads to the discovery of general principles which inspire the design of novel circuits, artificial muscles, exoskeletons, versatile scampering legged search-and-rescue robots and synthetic self-cleaning dry adhesives based on gecko feet. He is passionate about discovery-based education leading to innovation -- and he even helped Pixar’s insect animations in the film A Bug's Life.
Nancy,Etcoff,Happiness and its surprises,Evolutionary psychologist,https//connects.catalyst.harvard.edu/profiles/profile/1234266,,In her book Survival of the Prettiest , Nancy Etcoff refutes the social origins of beauty, in favor of far more prosaic and evolutionary explanations. Looking for a partner with clear skin? You're actually checking for parasites. And let's just say there's a reason high heels are always in fashion .,Her recent research into the question of happiness exposes results that not only are surprising but reinforce things we should've known all along like the fact that having flowers in the house really does make us happier. As the instructor of The Science of Happiness at Harvard Medical School and the director of the Program in Aesthetics and Well Being at Massachusetts General Hospital, Nancy Etcoff is uniquely qualified to solve the mysteries of contentment.
John,La,A plug for smart power outlets,Inventor,www.drjohnlapuma.com/,,John La Grou is a patent holder and research engineer on Safeplug, a new brand of electrical fault circuit interrupters. The Safeplug technology, which combines microprocessors in power outlets and RFID tags in electrical plugs, might just represent the next generation in residential and commercial electrical delivery . Besides conserving massive amounts of energy, Safeplug promises to save lives and prevent injuries by making the electrical systems in our homes smart.,La Grou is also CEO of Millennia Group, an audio design and manufacturing company that produces audio components held as the gold standard among professional musicians and producers.
Kevin,Surace,Eco-friendly drywall,Engineer, executive,https//www.ted.com/speakers/kevin_surace,,Kevin Surace wants to reduce the use of fossil fuels and their effect on the environment by greening manufacturing processes that create the basic components of our everyday life. As CEO of Serious Materials, he's helping to reduce the energy usage (and CO2 emissions) generated by the world's largest contributor -- buildings. Before Serious Materials, Surace worked with Perfect Commerce, General Magic, Air Communications, National Semiconductor and Seiko-Epson.,“Kevin Surace of Serious Materials is proof that rethinking, retooling and re-acting can turn a bleak labor situation into bright green opportunities.” — On the Green Front
Pete,Alcorn,The world in 2200,Media exec,https//www.ted.com/speakers/pete_alcorn,,Pete Alcorn has been in the forefront of several head-snapping changes in media over the past two decades. Starting as a computer-textbook writer in the late '80s, Alcorn became fascinated with the new electronic side of print . He founded NetRead in the early '90s to help book publishers work with metadata and understand the next world of e-publishing.,Since 2005, he has led the podcasting operation at iTunes , bulking up the iTunes Music Store's podcast library with thousands of free (and very findable) titles. Before Apple, he led the sale of ebooks and electronic documents at Amazon.com. In his spare time, he thinks big thoughts.
Felix,Dennis,Odes to vice and consequences,Publisher, philanthropist, poet,felixdennis.com,,Felix Dennis was one of Great Britain's best-known entrepreneurs. This big-personality media mogul's best-known hit was the men's magazine Maxim , but he also launched Mac User , Computer Shopper, The Week and dozens more magazines, including the allegedly obscene publication Oz , which landed him briefly in jail. His colorful life included numerous girlfriends, glamorous houses in three countries and the planting of what he intended to be Britain's biggest deciduous forest .,In late 2000, Dennis began to write poetry seriously . He startled the literary world with eight gorgeous volumes of verse, including the blockbuster A Glass Half Full , which became one of the largest-selling books of original verse in the UK in decades. He published his last anthology of poems, This Is The Way Out of The World , in 2014. He is also the author of four nonfiction books , which range in topic from how to make a fortune to a biography of Muhammad Ali.
Yann,Arthus-Bertrand,A wide-angle view of fragile Earth,Photographer, yannarthusbertrand.com,,Yann Arthus-Bertrand is perhaps the best known aerial photographer on the planet. He has sold more than 3 million copies worldwide of his seminal photo essay Earth From Above, a decade-spanning attempt to photograph all the vistas of the planet from the sky, whether by helicopter, hot air balloon, or anything else that flies. Arthus-Bertrand seeks to uncover the story behind the landscape, not just create a pretty picture. Indeed, his subjects are not always photogenic -- his prints show poverty and strife as well as green tranquility, and everywhere in his work is the encroaching hand of humanity and its enterprise. He keeps close track of the coordinates of his locations, so other photographers may track their progress over time.,His newest project takes a different view -- focusing more closely on the people who live on this planet. Called 6 Billion Others, the project was a centerpiece of Pangea Day 2008.
Ray,Kurzweil,A university for the coming singularity,Inventor, futurist,kurzweilai.net,,Inventor, entrepreneur, visionary, Ray Kurzweil's accomplishments read as a startling series of firsts -- a litany of technological breakthroughs we've come to take for granted. Kurzweil invented the first optical character recognition (OCR) software for transforming the written word into data, the first print-to-speech software for the blind, the first text-to-speech synthesizer, and the first music synthesizer capable of recreating the grand piano and other orchestral instruments, and the first commercially marketed large-vocabulary speech recognition. Yet his impact as a futurist and philosopher is no less significant. In his best-selling books, which include How to Create a Mind , The Age of Spiritual Machines , The Singularity Is Near When Humans Transcend Biology , Kurzweil depicts in detail a portrait of the human condition over the next few decades, as accelerating technologies forever blur the line between human and machine.,In 2009, he unveiled Singularity University , an institution that aims to assemble, educate and inspire leaders who strive to understand and facilitate the development of exponentially advancing technologies. He is a Director of Engineering at Google, where he heads up a team developing machine intelligence and natural language comprehension.
Liz,Coleman,A call to reinvent liberal arts education,College president,www.benningtonbanner.com/.../elizabeth-coleman-re...,,If you followed higher education news in the 1990s, you have an opinion on Liz Coleman. The president of what was once the most expensive college in America, Coleman made a radical, controversial plan to snap the college out of a budget and mission slump -- by ending the tenure system, abolishing academic divisions and yes, firing a lot of professors. It was not a period without drama. But fifteen years on, it appears that the move has paid off. Bennington's emphasis on cross-disciplinary, hands-on learning has attracted capacity classes to the small college, and has built a vibrant environment for a new kind of learning.,Coleman's idea is that higher education is an active pursuit -- a performing art . Her vision calls for lots of one-on-one interactions between professor and student, deep engagement with primary sources, highly individual majors, and the destruction of the traditional academic department. It's a lofty goal that takes plenty of hard work to keep on course.
Kaki,King,Playing Pink Noise on guitar,Guitarist,kakiking.com,,Kaki King combines jaw-dropping guitar work with dreamy, searching songwriting. Her percussive technique (guitar geeks compare it to Preston Reed's, everyone else compares it to Eddie Van Halen's) drives her songs forward, while layers of overdubs and her own soft vocals create a shimmering cloud of sound.,King's work on the soundtrack for 2007's Into the Wild was nominated for a Golden Globe, along with contributors Michael Brook and Eddie Vedder. Her groundbreaking new multimedia work, The Neck Is a Bridge to the Body , uses projection mapping to present the guitar as an ontological tabula rasa in a creation myth unlike any other
Jonathan,Drori,Why we're storing billions of seeds,Educator,www.bristol.ac.uk › .,,Jonathan Drori has dedicated his career to media and learning. As the Head of Commissioning for BBC Online, he led the effort to create bbc.co.uk, the online face of the BBC (an effort he recalls fondly ). He came to the web from the TV side of the BBC, where as an editor and producer he headed up dozens of television series on science, education and the arts.,After almost two decades at the BBC, he's now a director at Changing Media Ltd., a media and education consultancy, and is a visiting professor at University of Bristol, where he studies educational media and misperceptions in science . He continues to executive produce the occasional TV series, including 2004's award-winning The DNA Story and 2009's Great Sperm Race. He is on the boards of the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Woodland Trust.
Jay,Walker,The world's English mania,Entrepreneur,www.walkerdigital.com/jay-walker_meet-jay.html,,It's befitting that an entrepreneur and inventor so prolific and acclaimed would curate a library devoted, as he says, to the astonishing capabilities of the human imagination. TIME twice named him one of the 50 most influential business leaders in the digital age, and he holds more than 200 patents. Jay Walker's companies -- under Walker Digital -- have alone served tens of millions of people and amassed billions in value.,A chunk of his net worth went into building this enchanting library space, whose exhibits (please touch!) go back, roughly, to the point our species learned to write, with a slight post-moveable type bias. Brimming with exquisitely illustrated books and artifacts (Enigma machine, velociraptor skeleton), the library itself is a marvel. Is it the glowing etched glass panels, or the Vivaldi piped from hidden speakers that gives it that je ne sais quoi? Maybe it's Walker himself, whose passion for the stuff just glows. It's apparent to those lucky enough to snag a tour.
Michelle,Obama,A plea for education,First Lady of the United States,barackobama.com,,Michelle Obama's life as First Lady of the United States is informed by her early life, growing up as the daughter of a pump operator for the Chicago water department. Though money was tight, her parents emphasized education and possibility for their two brilliant children. Both kids went to Princeton (her older brother, Craig Robinson , was a bond trader, then become a much-respected basketball coach at Brown and now Oregon State University), Michelle went on to Harvard Law School, and returned to Chicago to do corporate law at the firm where she met her future husband, Barack Obama . She left corporate law to become a civil servant, working in planning, social outreach and administration with the city of Chicago, AmeriCorps and the University of Chicago Medical Center.,Today, Michelle Obama's personal focus is on raising her own two children, Malia and Sasha, in the glare of White House life. Her more outward focus, as First Lady, also revolves around issues of work-life balance, she's a passionate supporter of military families and of working mothers . She's helping to lead the drive for national service , encouraging Americans to volunteer in their own communities. (And of course, she's become an international fashion icon too.)
Joachim,de,Don't eat the marshmallow!,Speaker and author,www.joachimdegreeff.eu/,,Joachim de Posada's infectious energy and humor turned him into a popular motivational coach. Working in Spanish and English, he helped companies and teams find deep and lasting reasons to succeed . His books included How to Survive Among the Piranhas and his latest, No te comas el marshmallow ... todavia , or Don't Eat the Marshmallow ... Yet . (He had recently updated the book for the recession, calling it Don't Eat the Marshmallow ... Ever. ),
Yves,Behar,A supercharged motorcycle design,Designer,www.fuseproject.com/,,Over the past decade, Yves Behar and his firm fuseproject have become the design group that companies turn to for a game-changing idea . Take the re-invention of the Bluetooth headset , for one, or the re-envigoration of the venerable but dowdy Birkenstock line, or Behar's LED-chic Leaf lamp for Herman Miller.,And yes, Behar and fuseproject are the people who put the green bunny ears on the XO laptop -- and are redesigning the next-gen XOXO laptop due in 2010. This quirky but deeply felt project encapsulates much of his recent work, fusing gotta-have-it design with a mission of social responsibility.
Carolyn,Porco,Could a Saturn moon harbor life?,Planetary scientist,carolynporco.com/,,Planetary scientist Carolyn Porco studies and interprets the photos from the Cassini-Huygens mission, orbiting Saturn and its largest moon, Titan. She and a team of scientists from NASA and the European Space Agency have been analyzing the images that Cassini has been sending back since it left Earth in 1999. They've found many new rings and four new moons (so far). And they've produced breathtaking images and animations of the stormy face of Saturn , its busy rings, and its jumble of moons and moonlets.,Back in the mid-1980s, while still working on her doctorate, Porco was drafted onto a team at JPL that was crunching the mountains of data coming back from the Voyager fly-by of Saturn. Her work on the planet's ringlets, and on a spoke pattern noticed in the rings, made an important connection between Saturn's rings and its magnetic field -- and cemented her connection with Saturn.
Mary,Roach,10 things you didn't know about orgasm,Writer, MaryRoach.net,,Freelance writer and humorist turned accidental science journalist Mary Roach likes to ask the questions we all wonder about but are usually too polite to mention. What happens after we die, anyway? How fast do cadavers rot? Can a corpse have an orgasm? Writing the Health & Body column for Salon.com quickened her interest in the dead -- that, and looking at the hit count for her columns on cadavers. Her books Stiff and Spook sprung out of research done for a proposed Salon column called the Dead Beat (sadly, it was killed). Her most recent book, Bonk , is a romp through the current landscape of gynecology, sex research and the adult novelty industry. In addition to her dry (and sometimes silly) wit, Roach has a penchant for funny voices, faking her way through interviews with expert scientists, and wheedling her way into strange locales, among them a dildo factory and under the business end of an ultrasound wand during coitus.,“... she takes an entertaining topic and showcases its creepier side. And then she makes the creepy funny.” — Pamela Paul, New York TImes
Dan,Ariely,Are we in control of our own decisions?,Behavioral economist,predictablyirrational.com,,Dan Ariely is a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University and a founding member of the Center for Advanced Hindsight. He is the author of the bestsellers Predictably Irrational , The Upside of Irrationality , and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty . Through his research and his (often amusing and unorthodox) experiments, he questions the forces that influence human behavior and the irrational ways in which we often all behave.,“If you want to know why you always buy a bigger television than you intended, or why you think it's perfectly fine to spend a few dollars on a cup of coffee at Starbucks, or why people feel better after taking a 50-cent aspirin but continue to complain of a throbbing skull when they're told the pill they took just cost one penny, Ariely has the answer.” — Daniel Gross, Newsweek
Ray,Anderson,The business logic of sustainability,Sustainable-business pioneer,www.rayanderson.org/,,Ray Anderson founded Interface, the company that makes those adorable Flor carpet tiles (as well as lots of less whizzy but equally useful flooring and fabric). He was a serious carpet guy , focused on building his company and making great products. Then he read Paul Hawken's book The Ecology of Commerce . Something clicked with his company's global reach and manufacturing footprint, he was in a position to do something very real, very important, in building a sustainable world.,Anderson focused the company's attention on sustainable decisionmaking, taking a hard look at suppliers, manufacturing processes, and the beginning-to-end life cycle of all its products. (For example If you can't find a place to recycle a worn or damaged Flor tile, Interface invites you to send it back to them and they'll do it for you. ) They call this drive Mission Zero our promise to eliminate any negative impact our company may have on the environment by the year 2020.
Naturally,700,A full-band beatbox,A capella ensemble,www.naturallyseven.com/events,,The men of Naturally 7 can sing like a dream. But what you might not expect from this vocal group is what else they do -- their voices contain multitudes of instruments, from a glorious trumpet to a full drum kit (with a side of turntables). They call it vocal play -- the art of creating instrumental music with the human voice. It's an evolutionary step beyond beatboxing, which is a solo pursuit -- these seven musicians are a tight orchestra.,Naturally 7's sonic range is clear even by reading the member lineup Roger N'glish Thomas is a baritone and rapper, Rod Eldridge handles tenor, trumpet and scratching, Warren Thomas brings percussion, guitar and a third tenor. Baritone Dwight Stewart, tenors Jamal Reed and Garfield Buckley (who also plays harmonica), and bass Armand Hutton round out the group.
Nandan,Nilekani,Ideas for India's future,Technologist and visionary,www.nandannilekani.in/en/biography,,Nandan Nilekani co-founded Infosys, one of India's leading information technology companies, back in 1981. After serving as its president and then CEO, he's now joined the Indian government to help lead a massive new IT project providing every Indian with a unique identity card. to concentrate on his next great endeavor re-imagining India in the new millennium. His book Imagining India asks big questions How can India -- which made such leaps in the past two decades -- maintain its demographic advantage? How can democracy and education be promoted? How, in the midst of such growth, can the environment be protected for the next generations?,“Seattle has Bill. Bangalore has Nandan. What makes Nilekani unique? For me it comes down to one phrase great explainer.” — Thomas Friedman
Hans,Rosling,Insights on HIV, in stunning data visuals,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Eric,Lewis,Chaos and harmony on piano,Pianist,elewrockjazz.com,,A virtuoso and fiery performer who treats the grand piano the way rock musicians treat a guitar, reaching into it to pluck strings and playing with explosive physicality, ELEW (Eric Lewis) has fused jazz and rock and in the process created a new genre, rockjazz. He has taken it from sold-out concert halls to a private performance at the White House, reinterpreting and reenergizing songs by Coldplay, Nirvana, Radiohead and more. He is the composer in residence at Complexions Contemporary Ballet, and leads a parallel career as a DJ.,“His playing was playful but also serious to a point of being spiritual.” — Wynton Marsalis in the New York Times
Seth,Godin,The tribes we lead,Marketer and author, sethgodin.com,,Seth Godin may be the ultimate entrepreneur for the Information Age, Mary Kuntz wrote in Business Week nearly a decade ago.  Instead of widgets or car parts, he specializes in ideas -- usually, but not always, his own. In fact, he's as focused on spreading ideas as he is on the ideas themselves. After working as a software brand manager in the mid-1980s, Godin started Yoyodyne, one of the first Internet-based direct-marketing firms, with the notion that companies needed to rethink how they reached customers . His efforts caught the attention of Yahoo!, which bought the company in 1998 and kept Godin on as a vice president of permission marketing. Godin has produced several critically acclaimed and attention-grabbing books, including Permission Marketing, All Marketers Are Liars, and Purple Cow (which was distributed in a milk carton). In 2005, Godin founded Squidoo.com , a Web site where users can share links and information about an idea or topic important to them.,“[Godin] is a demigod on the Web, a best-selling author, highly sought-after lecturer, successful entrepreneur, respected pundit and high-profile blogger. He is uniquely respected for his understanding of the Internet.” — Forbes.comAl,Gore,What comes after An Inconvenient Truth?,Climate-change prophet,https//www.algore.com/,,Unlike some in public office, Al Gore always intended to get something done, and since leaving Washington, DC -- following the tumultuous 2000 election -- he's still at it. In fact, his campaign for alerting the world to the dangers of climate change has only gained momentum. His Oscar-winning An Inconvenient Truth is the third most successful documentary ever released at the box office. Gore's famed PowerPoint presentation has drawn in a reluctant public, with its meticulously researched content and lucid style.,Meanwhile, Gore himself has found his footing as a communicator. The once wooden style has given way to a warmth and humor that reveal the depth of his experience as a soldier, congressman, senator, veep, TV executive, teacher and author. Arguably, Gore is better positioned today than he has ever been to affect the future of our environment and world.
Louise,Fresco,We need to feed the whole world,Food and agriculture expert,www.louiseofresco.com/HTML/UK_Index.html,,As food, climate and water crises loom, Louise Fresco is looking hard at how we cultivate our crops and tend our livestock on a global scale. An expert on agriculture and sustainability, Fresco shows how cities and rural communities will remain tied through food , even as populations and priorities shift among them. A former UN director, a contributor to think tanks and an advisor to academies in Europe and the United States, Fresco has noted how social unrest is made worse by hunger, poverty, environmental problems -- and modernization. Responsible agriculture provides the livelihood for every civilization, Fresco says, but adds that mere food aid is not a solution to world hunger . She hopes that smart, local solutions for food production will improve war-torn areas and ease the pressures of regulations on production. Fresco teaches at the University of Amsterdam, writes on policy and economics for the Dutch paper NRC Handelsblad and is also a popular novelist.,“There is no technical reason why we could not feed a world of nine billion people. Hunger is a matter of buying power, not of shortages.” — Louise Fresco, NRC Handelsblad
Tom,Shannon,Anti-gravity sculpture,Sculptor,www.tomshannon.com/,,Artist and inventor Tom Shannon's sculpture has been exhibited in galleries and institutions all around the world, including the Centre Pompidou in Paris, the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam and the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. His clever orchestrations of hidden magnets and tiny suspension cables make otherwise inert materials such as steel and wood take on a truly otherworldly quality -- bringing objects like planets, stars and atoms to a scale you can understand (and touch). Shannon also holds the patents for the first tactile telephone, a color television projector and a synchronous world clock that is in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. He is developing a spherical helium airship whose entire surface is an LED video screen.,“Tom Shannon's visually perplexing sculptures and installations allude to unseen forces better known to physics -- and to Star Trek fans -- than to conventional art.” — Art in America
Mae,Jemison,Teach arts and sciences together,Astronaut,www.drmae.com/,,Mae Jemison is a poster child for an education that combines arts and sciences. As she says, I always knew I'd go to space. Trained as an engineer, Jemison is a medical doctor, and she practiced in LA before becoming the Peace Corps' Medical Officer for Sierra Leone and Liberia. While running that effort, she researched Hepatitis B, schistosomaisis and rabies with the CDC and NIH.,Back in the US, she'd returned to her California practice when selected in 1987 for NASA's astronaut program. She was the science mission specialist on STS-47 Spacelab-J (September 12-20, 1992), a cooperative mission between the United States and Japan. From NASA's factsheet The eight-day mission was accomplished in 127 orbits of the Earth, and included 44 Japanese and U.S. life science and materials processing experiments. Dr. Jemison was a co-investigator on the bone cell research experiment flown on the mission. The Endeavour and her crew launched from and returned to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. In completing her first space flight, Dr. Jemison logged 190 hours, 30 minutes, 23 seconds in space.
Sean,Gourley,The mathematics of war,Physicist and military theorist,seangourley.com/,,Sean Gourley's twin passions are physics (working on nanoscale blue-light lasers and self-assembled quantum nanowires) and politics (he once ran for a national elected office back home in New Zealand).,A Rhodes scholar, he's spent the past five years working at Oxford on complex adaptive systems and collective intelligent systems -- basically, using data to understand the nature of human conflict . As he puts it, This research has taken me all over the world from the Pentagon, to the House of Lords, the United Nations and most recently to Iraq. Originally from New Zealand, he now lives in San Francisco, where he is the co-founder and CTO of Quid which is building a global intelligence platform. He's a 2009 TED Fellow.
Brian,Cox,What went wrong at the LHC,Physicist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/brian_cox,,Based at the University of Manchester, Brian Cox works at CERN in Geneva on the ATLAS experiment , studying the forward proton detectors for the Large Hadron Collider there. He's a professor at the University of Manchester, working in the High Energy Physics group, and is a research fellow of the Royal Society .,He's also become a vital voice in the UK media for explaining physics to the public . With his rockstar hair and accessible charm, he's the go-to physicist for explaining heady concepts on British TV and radio. (If you're in the UK, watch him on The Big Bang Machine .) He was the science advisor for the 2007 film Sunshine . He answers science questions every Friday on BBC6 radio's Breakfast Show .
Laurie,Garrett,Lessons from the 1918 flu,Science journalist,lauriegarrett.com/,,Laurie Garrett has made a career of uncovering science and policy news that is almost too depressing to know emerging and re-emerging diseases, and the world's general inability to deal with them. In the process, she has uncovered gaping lapses in public health and policy .,Garrett is the author of The Coming Plague Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance and Betrayal of Trust The Collapse of Global Public Health . As a science writer for Newsday , Garrett won a Pulitzer, a Peabody and two Polk awards, in 2004, she joined the Council on Foreign Relations as Senior Fellow for Global Health. She is an expert on public health -- and the fascinating ways that health policy affects foreign policy and national security.
Sarah,Jones,A one-woman global village,Polymorphic playwright,sarahjonesonline.com/,,Chameleon-like barely describes the astonishing ease with which Sarah Jones slips in and out of the characters in her solo performances -- as many as fourteen personae in her Broadway hit Bridge & Tunnel. Critics marvel not only at her ability to perfectly mimic accents and mannerisms, but also to seemingly reshape her body, down to pupils and dimples, in the blink of an eye.,Jones' performances showcase a biting political awareness, and she has received commissions from Equality Now, the Kellogg Foundation and the National Immigration Forum to address issues of injustice and inequality. She is a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador and has given multiple performances at the White House at the invitation of President and First Lady Obama. Jones is now at work on a new solo show called Sell/Buy/Date, commissioned by the Novo Foundation. She debuted material from it at TED2015. She is also working on a commission for Lincoln Center Theater and a television project based on her characters.
Michael,Merzenich,Growing evidence of brain plasticity,Neuroscientist,www.onthebrain.com/,,One of the foremost researchers of neuroplasticity, Michael Merzenich's work has shown that the brain retains its ability to alter itself well into adulthood -- suggesting that brains with injuries or disease might be able to recover function, even later in life. He has also explored the way the senses are mapped in regions of the brain and the way sensations teach the brain to recognize new patterns.,Merzenich wants to bring the powerful plasticity of the brain into practical use through technologies and methods that harness it to improve learning. He founded Scientific Learning Corporation, which markets and distributes educational software for children based on models of brain plasticity. He is co-founder and Chief Science Officer of Posit Science, which creates brain training software also based on his research.
Alex,Tabarrok,How ideas trump crises,Economist, marginalrevolution.com,,Perhaps the appeal of economics in the blogosphere was not pre-ordained from its representation in the bestseller lists (the Freakonomics phenomenon notwithstanding). But economists have taken the internet by storm, and Alex Tabarrok is one of the hottest -- along with co-author Tyler Cowen, their blog marginalrevolution.com is one of the most popular on the web, generating a forest of links and kudos from the mainstream press, including the Wall Street Journal .,Tabarrok's fascinations include the intersection among economics, law and public policy -- examining questions such as how race and poverty affect the outcome of jury trials. Tabarrok is also the Director of Research for the Independent Institute , an assistant editor for the Independent Review , and an Associate Professor of Economics at George Mason University .
Ben,Katchor,Comics of bygone New York,Cartoonist,www.katchor.com/,,In the antique buildings of New York City now overgrown with tawdry fixtures and the modernized hopes of its denizens, Ben Katchor listens for the stories that fill his wry, perceptive (and slightly surreal) comic strips of urban life. Downtrodden characters and objects get equal time in a slant spotlight, and while their interplay is often pathetic, it points to profound truths about history, memory and human hopes.,Katchor is author of several comics collections, including Cheap Novelties The Pleasures of Urban Decay, The Jew of New York , and Julius Knipl Real Estate Photographer. He's been a Guggenheim Fellow and has also written for the stage works such as The Slug Bearers of Kayrol Island. In May, he premieres A Check-room Romance , a musical tragicomedy co-written with Mark Mulcahy
Erik,Hersman,Reporting crisis via texting,Blogger, technologist,Ushahidi.com,,Erik Hersman harnesses Africa’s boundless spirit of innovation by creating platforms to improve daily lives both inside and outside the continent. Hersman facilitates a host of web and mobile projects via organizations like iHub , a Nairobi community center built around the vision of an epicenter for Kenya’s booming tech industry. The mobile app Ushahidi , which he co-developed, allows users to share breaking news through text messaging, and continues to revolutionize and empower journalists, watchdog groups, and everyday people around the world.,Hersman, a TED Senior Fellow, grew up in Kenya and Sudan and is, as he puts it, one of those guys who's much more 'at home' in Africa. He keeps two influential blogs WhiteAfrican , where he writes about technology on the African continent, and AfriGadget , a group blog that celebrates African ingenuity.
Nate,Silver,Does racism affect how you vote?,Statistician, fivethirtyeight.com,,In the 2008 election season's closing weeks, throngs of wonks and laypeople alike were glued to FiveThirtyEight.com , a habitforming political blog. Red and blue bar charts crowded the scrollbars as the pulse of exit polls crept along the site's latest projections. It seemed almost miraculous In a year of acute turns of favor, the site's owner and mouthpiece, Nate Silver (who blogged anonymously as  Poblano  until outing himself on May 30, 2008, as a baseball numberhead), managed to predict the winners of every U.S. Senate contest -- and the general Presidential election.,Besides being just-damn-fascinating, Silver's analysis is a decidedly contrarian gauntlet thrown before an unrepentant, spectacle-driven media. The up-and-coming pundit, who cut his teeth forecasting the performance of Major League Baseball players, has a fairly direct explanation of why most projections fail Polls are cherry-picked based on their brand name or shock value rather than their track record of accuracy.
Niels,Diffrient,Rethinking the way we sit down,Designer,www.humanscale.com/form_function/designers.cfm?...4,,Niels Diffrient is a pioneer of ergonomic design -- taking the radical approach of examining the human body as it interacts with furniture, and asking, Is there a better way to sit? His three-volume reference work, Humanscale , explores the relationship of spine to chair and other human engineering data necessary for highly specialized workplaces such as a cockpit or a truck cab, as well as aiding in the search for the perfectly comfortable place to sit down.,In the 1990s, Diffrient turned his attention to the office task chair. Working with the company Humanscale, he drew up the Freedom chair, a self-adjusting chair that mixed advanced materials (such as a gel seat pad) with good old-fashioned sketchbook design . The Freedom chair was part of a late-'90s revolution in design that turned expensive ergonomic office chairs into dot-com covetables. In 2004, Diffrient and Humanscale released the lighter and lower-priced Liberty task chair.
Margaret,Wertheim,The beautiful math of coral,Figurer,www.theiff.org/,,Snowflakes, fractals, the patterns on a leaf -- there's beauty to be found at the intersection of nature and physics, beauty and math . Science writer Margaret Wertheim (along with her twin sister, Christine) founded the Institute for Figuring to advance the aesthetic appreciation of scientific concepts, from the natural physics of snowflakes and fractals to human constructs such as Islamic mosaics, string figures and weaving. The IFF's latest project is perhaps its most beguilingly strange -- a coral reef constructed entirely by crochet hook, a project that takes advantage of the happy congruence between the mathematical phenomena modeled perfectly by the creatures of the reef, and repetitive tasks such as crocheting -- which, as it turns out, is perfectly adapted to model hyperbolic space . It is easy to sink into the kaleidoscopic, dripping beauty of the yarn-modeled reef, but the aim of the reef project is twofold to draw attention to distressed coral reefs around the world, dying in droves from changing ocean saline levels, overfishing, and a myriad of threats, and to display a flavor of math that was previously almost impossible to picture. By modeling these complex equations in physical space, this technique can help mathematicians see patterns and make breakthroughs.,Wertheim is now working on a book about maverick scientist James Carter.
Matthew,Childs,9 life lessons from rock climbing,Marketer, rock climber,www.matthewchildsdesign.co.uk/,,A specialist in digital branding and interactive services, Matthew Childs seeks out new trends in competitive markets. As an advertising lead at Razorfish, Childs draws from extensive experience in the marketing world, having led Nike's global internal communications department. Before that, he was a writer and editor for Outside Magazine and Playboy . Apart from his career, Childs' passion is rock climbing.,“Childs says the Internet offers immense potential for businesses to communicate with clients, and he enjoys the challenge of providing that link. Most agencies, most clients are very navel-gazing.” — St. Petersburg Times
Tim,Ferriss,Smash fear, learn anything,Productivity guru, author,www.timothyferriss.com/,,Tim Ferris brings an analytical, yet accessible, approach to the challenges of self-improvement and career advancement through what he calls lifestyle design. His 2007 book, The 4-Hour Workweek , and his lectures on productivity are stuffed with moving, encouraging anecdotes -- often from his own life -- that show how simple decisions, made despite fears or hesitation, can make for a drastically more meaningful day-to-day experience at work, or in life.,Word-of-blog chatter in Silicon Valley may have propelled his book to bestselling success, but Ferriss himself takes a fervid stance against the distractions of technologies like email and PDAs, which promote unnecessary multitasking.
JoAnn,Kuchera-Morin,Stunning data visualization in the AlloSphere,Composer,www.allosphere.ucsb.edu/people..,,Composer JoAnn Kuchera-Morin works on the Allosphere, one of the largest scientific and artistic instruments in the world. Based at UCSB, the Allosphere and its 3D immersive theater maps complex data in time and space . Kuchera-Morin founded the Center for Research in Electronic Art Technology (CREATE) and has been the director since its birth in 1986. In 2000 she began work on a Digital Media Center within the California NanoSystems Institute at Santa Barbara . Her fascinations include gestural interfaces for performance and the expression of complex data in nontraditional forms.,Hew own music explores the boundaries of electric/acoustic instrumentation, welcoming digital players into the ensemble in works such as Concerto For Clarinet and Clarinets , a composition for solo clarinet and computer-generated tape.
Gregory,Stock,To upgrade is human,Author, thinker,www.gregorystock.net/,,Bestselling author and lecturer Gregory Stock examines the evolutionary significance of technological progress. His 1993 book, Metaman , looks (optimistically) toward a future where the symbiotic relationship between human culture and technology increasingly resembles a superorganism that can respond, as a whole, to crises like global warming. 2003's Redesigning Humans poses the alluring -- and sometimes frightening -- possibility that human biology will soon become customizable no mere question of availability, but a matter of personal choice.,Stock's other work includes Engineering the Human Germline , which looks at the implications of controlled evolution, and a set of perpetually-bestselling tabletop conversation-starters, the flagship of which is The Book of Questions .
Shai,Agassi,A new ecosystem for electric cars,Green auto pioneer,www.fastcompany.com › Innovation Agents,,When horrific climate-change scenarios elicit little but endless chatter from governments and entrenched special interests, the difference between talk and action represent an embarrassing gulf. Meet Shai Agassi, who has stepped fearlessly into that gap. His approach to solving the puzzle of electric automobiles could spark nothing short of an automotive revolution.,Agassi stunned the software industry in 2007 by resigning from SAP to focus on his vision for breaking the world's fossil-fuel habit , a cause he had championed since his fuse was lit at a Young Global Leaders conference in 2005. Through his enthusiastic persistence, Agassi's startup Better Place has signed up some impressive partners -- including Nissan-Renault and the countries of Israel and Denmark.
Renny,Gleeson,Our antisocial phone tricks,Skeptimist,rennygleeson.com,,Renny Gleeson is a skeptical/optimist. He leads interactive strategy for ad agency Wieden+Kennedy who started his career as a game developer. He has been wondering what we can learn about ourselves through the millions of deaths taking place inside video games. He serves on the board of directors of Rhizome.org and is the co-founder of the PIE tech accelerator in Portland, Oregon. A mentor for tech accelerators and startups worldwide, he believes stories -- from cave paintings to interfaces to video games -- shape worlds.,
Emily,Levine,A theory of everything,Philosopher-comic, emilylevineuniverse.com,,Humorist Emily Levine works a heady vein of humor, cerebral and thoughtful as well as very, very amusing. Oh, she's got plenty of jokes. But her work, at its core, makes serious connections -- between hard science and pop culture , between what we say and what we secretly assume ... She plumbs the hidden oppositions, the untouchable not-quite-truths of the modern mind.,Her background in improv theater, with its requirement to always say yes to the other actor's reality, has helped shape her worldview. Always suspicious of sharp either/or distinctions, she proposes the quantum logic of and/and -- a thoroughly postmodern, scientifically informed take on life that allows for complicated states of being. Like the one we're in right now.
Bonnie,Bassler,How bacteria talk,Molecular biologist,molbio.princeton.edu › Faculty & Research › Faculty,,In 2002, bearing her microscope on a microbe that lives in the gut of fish, Bonnie Bassler isolated an elusive molecule called AI-2, and uncovered the mechanism behind mysterious behavior called quorum sensing -- or bacterial communication. She showed that bacterial chatter is hardly exceptional or anomolous behavior, as was once thought -- and in fact, most bacteria do it, and most do it all the time. (She calls the signaling molecules bacterial Esperanto.) The discovery shows how cell populations use chemical powwows to stage attacks, evade immune systems and forge slimy defenses called biofilms. For that, she's won a MacArthur genius grant -- and is giving new hope to frustrated pharmacos seeking new weapons against drug-resistant superbugs. Bassler teaches molecular biology at Princeton, where she continues her years-long study of V. harveyi, one such social microbe that is mainly responsible for glow-in-the-dark sushi. She also teaches aerobics at the YMCA.,“She's really the one who's shown that this is something that all these bacteria are doing all the time. And if we want to understand them, we have to understand quorum sensing.” — Ned Wingreen, Princeton, on Nova ScienceNOW
Bruce,Bueno,A prediction for the future of Iran,Political scientist,politics.as.nyu.edu/object/brucebuenodemesquita,,Every motive has a number, says Bruce Bueno de Mesquita. A specialist in foreign policy, international relations and state building, he is also a leading -- if controversial -- scholar of rational choice theory, which says math underlies the nation-scale consequences of individuals acting for personal benefit . He created forecasting technology that has, time and again, exceeded the accuracy of old-school analysis, even with thorny quarrels charged by obscure contenders, and often against odds. (One example He called the second Intifada two years in advance.) Bueno de Mesquita's company, Mesquita & Roundell, sells his system's predictions and analysis to influential government and private institutions that need heads-ups on policy. He teaches at NYU and is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.,“If you listen to Bruce Bueno de Mesquita, and a lot of people don’t, he’ll claim that mathematics can tell you the future.” — Michael A.M. Lerner, Good magazine
Nathaniel,Kahn,Scenes from My Architect,Filmmaker,www.imdb.com/title/tt0373175/,,The architect Louis Kahn was known for formally brilliant modern buildings, but his personal life was utterly baroque  married with one child, he had two other children by two other women. His only son, Nathaniel, met him rarely, Louis died when Nathaniel was only 11. Nathaniel grew up to become a playwright and documentary filmmaker -- he worked on such award-winning films as 1996's My Father's Garden and Canary of the Ocean .,His 2002 film My Architect traveled the world to uncover the mysteries of his father, looking for clues in Louis Kahn's body of work, in his work relationships and his personal ones. It's a film with meaning to anyone who seeks to understand the relationship between art and love . After My Architect , Kahn directed the Oscar- and Emmy-nominated 2004 documentary Two Hands , about the pianist Leon Fleischer, and produced a mockumental look at the director M. Night Shyamalan .
P.W.,Singer,Military robots and the future of war,Military analyst,www.pwsinger.com/,,Peter Warren Singer is the director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution -- where his research and analysis offer an eye-opening take on what the 21st century holds for war and foreign policy. His latest book, Wired for War , examines how the US military has been, in the words of a recent US Navy recruiting ad, working hard to get soldiers off the front lines and replacing humans with machines for bombing, flying and spying. He asks big questions What will the rise of war machines mean to traditional notions of the battlefield, like honor? His 2003 book Corporate Warriors was a prescient look at private military forces. It's essential reading for anyone curious about what went on to happen in Iraq involving these quasi-armies.,Singer is a prolific writer and essayist (for Brookings, for newspapers, and for Wired.com's great Threat Level), and is expert at linking popular culture with hard news on what's coming next from the military-industrial complex . Recommended his recent piece for Brookings called A Look at the Pentagon's Five-Step Plan for Making Iron Man Real.
Christopher,C.,The Airstream, restyled,Designer,www.cdeam.com/,,Looking at his work, with its clean, swooping lines and elegant economy of movement, it's easy to guess that Christopher C. Deam is a surfer. His designs for spaces and furniture are light and clear and thoughtful , unleashed by modern materials and anchored in old-fashioned craftsmanship.,Deam's work came to national attention with his remodel of the iconic Airstream trailer, a project for the laminate maker Wilsonart -- a sweet-spot project that fired the design world's love of modular and small homes . (In 2009, it's hard to realize how radical this little trailer looked in 2000, during the heyday of the megamansion.) His other design work includes designs for Target, Herman Miller and many other manufacturers, as well as an architectural practice.
Ueli,Gegenschatz,Extreme wingsuit flying,Aerialist, gegenschatz.com,,Ueli Gegenschatz was known for his expert paragliding, skydiving and BASE jumping -- and his utterly jawdropping flight in a wingsuit, a high-tech flying-squirrel-inspired getup that let him soar as close as humanly possible to our shared dream of flight . His addiction to speed continues to inspire.,A member of the Swiss national paragliding team for four years, Gegenschatz co-founded the Red Bull acro team in 1995. His BASE jumping stunts are the stuff of YouTube legend  the Eiffel Tower, Petronas Towers in KL, the Eiger, Mönch and Jungfrau peaks all in one day.
Jacek,Utko,Can design save newspapers?,Newspaper designer, Utko.com,,Newspaper designer Jacek Utko suggests that it's time for a fresh, top-to-bottom rethink of the newspaper. (At this point, why not try it?) In his work, he's proved that good design can help readers reconnect with newspapers . A former architect, Utko took on the job of redesigning several newspapers in former Soviet Bloc nations, starting from basic principles. He worked closely with newspaper executives to figure out the business goals of their papers, and then radically reformatted the product to fit those goals. (And he wasn't afraid to break a few grids in the process.),As the art director at Warsaw's Puls Biznesu in 2004, he redesigned this small business-focused newspaper and immediately won the SND award for world's best-designed newspaper. Readers responded, and circulation went up . He's now art director for the Bonnier Business Press, overseeing papers in Eastern Europe and the Baltic states, and the work he oversees consistently wins major prizes (including another SND world's-best in 2007 for Estonia's Äripäev ), despite their small teams and limited resources.
C.K.,Williams,Poetry of youth and age,Poet,poets.org,,C.K. Williams started writing poetry at 19, after taking only his required English classes at University of Pennsylvania. In the 1960s, he began gearing his poems toward social issues, such as the brutality that civil rights activists often faced and his anti-war stance with respect to Vietnam. Over time, although he continued to write about society, his work became more personal . His focus shifted to the intersection of profoundly different lives in crowded urban spaces, using these instances to examine sensitive issues such as race and class. The subject matter of his work is not its only controversy, and Williams is often compared to Whitman and Ginsberg because of his unusually long lines of verse. Despite his unconventional poetic form , he has been awarded the Pulitzer Prize, the National Book Award and the National Book Critics Circle Award, among other honors. He has also published five works of translation and a psychologically introspective memoir, Misgivings My Mother, My Father, Myself .,“To put it simply, C.K. Williams is a wonderful poet, in the authentic American tradition of Walt Whitman and William Carlos Williams, who tells us on every page what it means to be alive in our time.” — Stanley Kunitz
Nathan,Wolfe,The jungle search for viruses,Virus hunter, GVFI.org,,Using genetic sequencing, needle-haystack research, and dogged persistence (crucial to getting spoilage-susceptible samples through the jungle and to the lab), Nathan Wolfe has proven what was science-fiction conjecture only a few decades ago -- not only do viruses jump from animals to humans, but they do so all the time . Along the way Wolfe has discovered several new viruses, and is poised to discover many more.,Wolfe's research has turned the field of epidemiology on its head, and attracted interest from philanthropists at Google.org and the Skoll foundation. Better still, the research opens the door to preventing epidemics before they happen , sidelining them via early-warning systems and alleviating the poverty from which easy transmission emerges.
John,Wooden,The difference between winning and succeeding,Coach,www.coachwooden.com/,,Born in 1910, Coach John Wooden was the first person to be inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame both as a player and coach, while ESPN ranks him as the greatest coach of all time, across all sports . In his 40 years at UCLA, he mentored legends such as Bill Walton and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. He has created a model, the Pyramid of Success , and authored several books to impart his insight on achievement to others. Coach wanted his players to be victors in life and not just on the court, so he treated them as an extended family and emphasized that winning was more than scoring . Indeed, most of his inspiring theories were born from conversations with his father, as a boy on their farm in Indiana. One that sums up his ideology quite well is his often-quoted definition of success Success is peace of mind which is a direct result of self-satisfaction in knowing you made the effort to become the best that you are capable of becoming.,“Coach Wooden is a humble, private man who has selflessly given up his life to make other people’s lives better ... John Wooden gave us the necessary tools to overcome the adversity and obstacles that he knew from the beginning would always be in our way. He taught us to find a source of motivation to inspire us to ever higher levels of preparation and work.” — Bill Walton
David,Pogue,Cool tricks your phone can do,Technology columnist,davidpogue.com/,,Which cell phone to choose? What software to buy? Are camera-binoculars a necessity or novelty? As release cycles shorten and ever-shrinking gadgets hit the market with dizzying speed, it's harder and harder to know what's worth the investment. A tireless explorer of everyday technology, David Pogue investigates all the options so we don't have to.,After happily weathering installation nightmares, customer service hiccups, and an overwhelming crush of backups, upgrades and downloads, Pogue reports back with his recommendations via his many columns , TV appearances and how-to books . And he does it all with relatable insight, humor and an unsinkable sense of pun, er, fun . All that, and he sings, too.
Jacqueline,Novogratz,An escape from poverty,Social entrepreneur,acumen.org/people/board/jacqueline-novogratz/,,One of the most innovative players shaping philanthropy today, Jacqueline Novogratz is redefining the way problems of poverty can be solved around the world. Drawing on her past experience in banking, microfinance and traditional philanthropy, Novogratz has become a leading proponent for financing entrepreneurs and enterprises that can bring affordable clean water, housing and healthcare, energy, agriculture and education to poor people so that they no longer have to depend on the disappointing results and lack of accountability seen in traditional charity and old-fashioned aid .,Acumen , which she founded in 2001, has an ambitious plan to change the way the world tackles poverty . Indeed, Acumen has more in common with a venture capital fund than a typical nonprofit. Rather than handing out grants, Acumen invests in early stage companies and organizations that bring critical -- often life-altering -- products and services to the world's poor. Like VCs, Acumen offers not just money, but also infrastructure and management expertise. From drip-irrigation systems in India to high quality solar lighting solutions in East Africa to a low-cost mortgage program in Pakistan, Acumen's portfolio offers important case studies for entrepreneurial efforts aimed at the vastly underserved market of those making less than $4/day.
Saul,Griffith,High-altitude wind energy from kites!,Inventor,www.saulgriffith.com/,,Innovator and inventor Saul Griffith has a uniquely open approach to problem solving. Whether he's devising a way to slash the cost of prescription eyeglasses or teaching science through cartoons, Griffith makes things and then shares his ideas with the world .,A proponent of open-source information, he established Instructables , an open website showing how to make an array of incredible objects. He is the co-founder of numerous companies including Squid Labs , Low Cost Eyeglasses , Potenco and Makani Power , where he is President and Chief Scientist. His companies have invented a myriad of new devices and materials, such as a smart rope that senses its load, or a machine for making low-cost eyeglass lenses through a process inspired by a water droplet. He is a columnist at Make magazine and co-writes How Toons! He's fascinated with materials that assemble themselves, and with taking advantage of those properties to make things quickly and cheaply.
Kamal,Meattle,How to grow fresh air,Business owner and activist, Greenspaces.in,,Kamal Meattle has a vision to reshape commercial building in India using principles of green architecture and sustainable upkeep (including an air-cleaning system that involves massive banks of plants instead of massive banks of HVAC equipment ). He started the Paharpur Business Centre and Software Technology Incubator Park ( PBC-STIP ), in New Delhi, in 1990 to provide instant office space to technology companies. PBC-STIP's website publishes its air quality index every day, and tracks its compliance to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact , a corporate-citizenship initiative.,Meattle has long been a environmental activist in India. In the 1980s he helped India's apple industry develop less-wasteful packaging to help save acres of trees. He then began a campaign to help India's millions of scooter drivers use less oil. His next plan is to develop a larger version of PBC-STIP, making a green office accessible to more businesses in New Delhi and serving as an example of low-cost, low-energy office life.
Bruce,McCall,What is retro-futurism?,Humorist,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_McCall,,A longtime contributor to the New Yorker , Bruce McCall is a humorist and illustrator whose best-known work draws on the big-shouldered hubris of the middle 1920s and the early 1950s to create a future paradise where the skies are fllled with zeppelins and every car has wings. He's a wry observer of contemporary life and a witty writer.,McCall began his career as an illustrator for car ads -- by his own account not a very good illustrator. He'd left the field and became a copywriter when, on a whim, he and a friend sent some humorous drawings to Playboy (at that time, 1970, it was a legit career move). He soon connected with the founders of the National Lampoon , a pioneering humor magazine, and went on to create some of their most enduring images -- finding in the 1970s countercultural media a rich audience for his satirical take on the Atomic Age . He's now working the same magic at the New Yorker .
Adam,Savage,My obsession with objects and the stories they tell,Fabricator, adamsavage.com,,As his official MythBusters bio puts it, Adam Savage has spent his life gathering skills that allow him to take what's in his brain and make it real. He worked as a special-effects artist, fabricator, modelmaker and general dreamer-upper for a decade and a half, working on films such as Galaxy Quest and the Matrix sequels, as well as Episodes I and II of the Star Wars series.,In 2002, he and his fellow movie-industry veteran Jamie Hyneman became the hosts of MythBusters , a Discovery Channel show that puts urban myths and rules of thumb to test in visceral, often hilarious ways. Behind the sheer awesomeness of their rocket cars and flaming projectiles, the MythBusters are a force for science education.
Dan,Ariely,Our buggy moral code,Behavioral economist,predictablyirrational.com,,Dan Ariely is a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University and a founding member of the Center for Advanced Hindsight. He is the author of the bestsellers Predictably Irrational , The Upside of Irrationality , and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty . Through his research and his (often amusing and unorthodox) experiments, he questions the forces that influence human behavior and the irrational ways in which we often all behave.,“If you want to know why you always buy a bigger television than you intended, or why you think it's perfectly fine to spend a few dollars on a cup of coffee at Starbucks, or why people feel better after taking a 50-cent aspirin but continue to complain of a throbbing skull when they're told the pill they took just cost one penny, Ariely has the answer.” — Daniel Gross, Newsweek
Dan,Dennett,Cute, sexy, sweet, funny,Philosopher, cognitive scientist,ase.tufts.edu/cogstud/,,One of our most important living philosophers, Dan Dennett is best known for his provocative and controversial arguments that human consciousness and free will are the result of physical processes in the brain. He argues that the brain's computational circuitry fools us into thinking we know more than we do, and that what we call consciousness — isn't. His 2003 book Freedom Evolves explores how our brains evolved to give us -- and only us -- the kind of freedom that matters, while 2006's Breaking the Spell examines belief through the lens of biology. This mind-shifting perspective on the mind itself has distinguished Dennett's career as a philosopher and cognitive scientist. And while the philosophy community has never quite known what to make of Dennett (he defies easy categorization, and refuses to affiliate himself with accepted schools of thought), his computational approach to understanding the brain has made him, as Edge's John Brockman writes, “the philosopher of choice of the AI community.” “It's tempting to say that Dennett has never met a robot he didn't like, and that what he likes most about them is that they are philosophical experiments,” Harry Blume wrote in the Atlantic Monthly in 1998. “To the question of whether machines can attain high-order intelligence, Dennett makes this provocative answer ‘The best reason for believing that robots might some day become conscious is that we human beings are conscious, and we are a sort of robot ourselves.',In recent years, Dennett has become outspoken in his atheism, and his 2006 book Breaking the Spell calls for religion to be studied through the scientific lens of evolutionary biology. Dennett regards religion as a natural -- rather than supernatural -- phenomenon, and urges schools to break the taboo against empirical examination of religion. He argues that religion's influence over human behavior is precisely what makes gaining a rational understanding of it so necessary “If we don't understand religion, we're going to miss our chance to improve the world in the 21st century.”
Tim,Berners-Lee,The next web,Inventor,w3.org,,In the 1980s, scientists at CERN were asking themselves how massive, complex, collaborative projects -- like the fledgling LHC -- could be orchestrated and tracked. Tim Berners-Lee, then a contractor, answered by inventing the World Wide Web. This global system of hypertext documents, linked through the Internet, brought about a massive cultural shift ushered in by the new tech and content it made possible AOL, eBay, Wikipedia, TED.com...,Berners-Lee is now director of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), which maintains standards for the Web and continues to refine its design. Recently he has envisioned a Semantic Web -- an evolved version of the same system that recognizes the meaning of the information it carries. He's the 3Com Founders Professor of Engineering in the School of Engineering with a joint appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Laboratory for Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (CSAIL) at the MIT, where he also heads the Decentralized Information Group (DIG). He is also a Professor in the Electronics and Computer Science Department at the University of Southampton, UK.
Stuart,Brown,Play is more than just fun,Play researcher, psychiatrist,www.nifplay.org/institute/about-us/,,Dr. Stuart Brown came to research play through research on murderers -- unlikely as that seems -- after he found a stunning common thread in killers' stories lack of play in childhood. Since then, he's interviewed thousands of people to catalog their relationships with play, noting a strong correlation between success and playful activity . His book Play describes the impact play can have on one's life.,With the support of the National Geographic Society and Jane Goodall, he has observed animal play in the wild, where he first concieved of play as an evolved behavior important for the well being -- and survival -- of animals, especially those of higher intelligence. Now, through his organization, the National Institute for Play, he hopes to expand the study of human play into a vital science -- and help people everywhere enjoy and participate in play throughout life.
Aimee,Mullins,My 12 pairs of legs,Athlete and actor,www.aimeemullins.com/,,Aimee Mullins was born without fibular bones, and had both of her legs amputated below the knee when she was an infant. She learned to walk on prosthetics, then to run -- competing at the national and international level as a champion sprinter, and setting world records at the 1996 Paralympics in Atlanta. At Georgetown, where she double-majored in history and diplomacy, she became the first double amputee to compete in NCAA Division 1 track and field.,After school, Mullins did some modeling -- including a legendary runway show for Alexander McQueen -- and then turned to acting, appearing as the Leopard Queen in Matthew Barney's Cremaster Cycle. In 2008 she was the official Ambassador for the Tribeca/ESPN Sports Film Festival.
Pattie,Maes,Meet the SixthSense interaction,Researcher,www.media.mit.edu/~pattie,,Pattie Maes was the key architect behind what was once called collaborative filtering and has become a key to Web 2.0 the immense engine of recommendations -- or things like this -- fueled by other users. In the 1990s, Maes' Software Agents program at MIT created Firefly, a technology (and then a startup sold to Microsoft) that let users choose songs they liked, and find similar songs they'd never heard of, by taking cues from others with similar taste. This brought a sea change in the way we interact with software, with culture and with one another. Now Maes is working on a similarly boundary-breaking initiative. She founded Fluid Interfaces Group, also part of the MIT Media Lab, to rethink the ways in which humans and computers interact, partially by redefining both human and computer. In Maes' world (and really, in all of ours), the computer is no longer a distinct object, but a source of intelligence that's embedded in our environment. By outfitting ourselves with digital accessories, we can continually learn from (and teach) our surroundings. The uses of this tech -- from healthcare to home furnishings, warfare to supermarkets -- are powerful and increasingly real. <!-- /* Font Definitions */ @font-face {font-family?? ??, mso-font-charset78, mso-generic-font-familyauto, mso-font-pitchvariable, mso-font-signature1 134676480 16 0 131072 0,} @font-face {font-familyCambria Math, panose-12 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4, mso-font-charset0, mso-generic-font-familyauto, mso-font-pitchvariable, mso-font-signature-536870145 1107305727 0 0 415 0,} @font-face {font-familyCambria, panose-12 4 5 3 5 4 6 3 2 4, mso-font-charset0, mso-generic-font-familyauto, mso-font-pitchvariable, mso-font-signature-536870145 1073743103 0 0 415 0,} /* Style Definitions */ p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal {mso-style-unhideno, mso-style-qformatyes, mso-style-parent, margin0in, margin-bottom.0001pt, mso-paginationwidow-orphan, font-size12.0pt, font-familyCambria, mso-ascii-font-familyCambria, mso-ascii-theme-fontminor-latin, mso-fareast-font-family?? ??, mso-fareast-theme-fontminor-fareast, mso-hansi-font-familyCambria, mso-hansi-theme-fontminor-latin, mso-bidi-font-familyTimes New Roman, mso-bidi-theme-fontminor-bidi,} .MsoChpDefault {mso-style-typeexport-only, mso-default-propsyes, font-familyCambria, mso-ascii-font-familyCambria, mso-ascii-theme-fontminor-latin, mso-fareast-font-family?? ??, mso-fareast-theme-fontminor-fareast, mso-hansi-font-familyCambria, mso-hansi-theme-fontminor-latin, mso-bidi-font-familyTimes New Roman, mso-bidi-theme-fontminor-bidi,} @page WordSection1 {size8.5in 11.0in, margin1.0in 1.25in 1.0in 1.25in, mso-header-margin.5in, mso-footer-margin.5in, mso-paper-source0,} div.WordSection1 {pageWordSection1,} -->,“We like to invent new disciplines or look at new problems, and invent bandwagons rather than jump on them.” — Pattie Maes, Digital Journal
Don,Norman,3 ways good design makes you happy,Cognitive scientist and design critic,www.jnd.org/,,Don Norman is an anthropologist of modern life, studying the way we humans interact with our designed world. Though he has a slight reputation as a grumpy critic, his work is generous and insightful -- he wants nothing less than to close the gap between products and their users. If you've ever fought with an automatic faucet in an airport bathroom , or wondered which button to press in the anonymous row on top of your printer, it's good to know that Norman is in your corner. He's the author of a raft of books on design and the way we humans interact with it, including the classic Design of Everyday Things. His next book, says his website , will be about sociable design .,Norman began his career as an academic, working in psychology and then cognitive science at UCSD. In the mid-'90s, he joined Apple and ended up in their Advanced Technology Group, and later worked for HP, before returning to university life. He's now the co-director of an innovative combined MBA and MEM program (called MMM ) at Northwestern University. He's also a cofounder of the usability consultancy Nielsen Norman Group .
Eric,Lewis,Piano jazz that rocks,Pianist,elewrockjazz.com,,A virtuoso and fiery performer who treats the grand piano the way rock musicians treat a guitar, reaching into it to pluck strings and playing with explosive physicality, ELEW (Eric Lewis) has fused jazz and rock and in the process created a new genre, rockjazz. He has taken it from sold-out concert halls to a private performance at the White House, reinterpreting and reenergizing songs by Coldplay, Nirvana, Radiohead and more. He is the composer in residence at Complexions Contemporary Ballet, and leads a parallel career as a DJ.,“His playing was playful but also serious to a point of being spiritual.” — Wynton Marsalis in the New York Times
Mike,Rowe,Learning from dirty jobs,TV host,mikeroweWORKS.com,,It's quite likely that Mike Rowe has held more jobs than any living person. Rowe is a co-creator and the host of the series Dirty Jobs , now in its fifth year on the Discovery Channel. On the show, he learns and performs hundreds of jobs that require, it's fair to say, a little bit of getting dirty -- from chick sexer to mushroom farmer, beekeeper to boiler repairman. He and his show celebrate the sweaty and vital labor that's often hidden behind gleaming office towers.,His own career has run from the world of opera to the world of QVC shopping television, for which he was a legendary late-night pitchman . In addition to Dirty Jobs , he is also the voice of Deadliest Catch, the spokesperson for Ford, and host of numerous other television shows and sporting events. In his latest incarnation, Rowe has become an unofficial spokesperson for workers. He shares his mission and other resources on the site MikeRoweWORKS.com (flagged Under Construction / Never Finished).
Nalini,Nadkarni,Conserving the canopy,Tree researcher,nalininadkarni.com/,,Nalini Nadkarni has spent two decades climbing the trees of Costa Rica, Papua New Guinea, the Amazon and the Pacific Northwest, exploring the world of animals and plants that live in the canopy and never come down , and how this upper layer of the forest interacts with the world on the ground. A pioneering researcher in this area, Nadkarni created the Big Canopy Database to help researchers store and understand the rich trove of data she and others are uncovering.,Nadkarni teaches at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington, but her work outside the academy is equally fascinating -- using nontraditional vectors to teach the general public about trees and the ecosystem. For instance, she recently collaborated with the dance troupe Capacitor to explore the process of growth through the medium of the human body. In another project, she worked with prison inmates to grow moss for the horticulture trade, to relieve the collecting pressure on wild mosses. The project inspired in her students a new reverence for nature -- and some larger ecochanges at the prison.
Willie,Smits,How to restore a rainforest,Conservationist,www.masarang.nl/en/,,Willie Smits works at the complicated intersection of humankind, the animal world and our green planet. In his early work as a forester in Indonesia, he came to a deep understanding of that triple relationship, as he watched the growing population of Sulawesi move into (or burn for fuel) forests that are home to the orangutan. These intelligent animals were being killed for food , traded as pets or simply failing to thrive as their forest home degraded.,Smits believes that to rebuild orangutan populations, we must first rebuild their forest habitat -- which means helping local people find options other than the short-term fix of harvesting forests to survive . His Masarang Foundation raises money and awareness to restore habitat forests around the world -- and to empower local people. In 2007, Masarang opened a palm-sugar factory that uses thermal energy to turn sugar palms (fast-growing trees that thrive in degraded soils) into sugar and even ethanol, returning cash and power to the community and, with luck, starting the cycle toward a better future for people, trees and orangs.
Brenda,Laurel,Games for girls,Designer and theorist,www.tauzero.com/Brenda_Laurel,,With a PhD in theater and a focus on interactive narratives, Brenda Laurel landed in Silicon Valley at the perfect moment -- at a time when theorists and technologists were exploring new ways that our expanded computing power could link us and entertain us in ways we couldn't yet imagine. She worked as a software designer and researcher for Atari and Activision, and co-founded a telepresence company in 1990.,In 1994 she became a founding member of Paul Allen and David Liddle's Interval Research , a legendary Silicon Valley think tank studying the connection between tech and everyday life. Interval was meant to spin off profitable companies, and Laurel led one of the highest-profile spinoffs, Purple Moon , a software company devoted to making games and interactive communities for girls. In the end-of-the-'90s collapse of the CD-ROM market, Purple Moon was acquired by Mattel and killed. Laurel wrote about the experience in the monograph Utopian Entrepreneur , a guide to doing socially positive work in the context of business.
Evan,Williams,The voices of Twitter users,Twitter co-founder, evhead.com,,Evan Williams helps the world answer the question What are you doing? Twitter , the tiny, free world-changing app Williams helped launch, has become a vital connector of people and communities (as well as a fantastic way to keep up with Shaq and Demi Moore ).,Before Williams worked on Twitter, he was part of a previous revolution in mass communication, Blogger , while working at Google. He left Google in 2004 to launch the podcasting service Odeo , and Twitter spun out from this in 2006 as a side project based on an idea of Jack Dorsey's .
Miru,Kim,My underground art explorations,Photographer and explorer, mirukim.com,,Miru Kim is a photographer and filmmaker with a love of the new and unknown. In her best-known body of work, she investigates left-behind industrial spaces, infiltrates them with her camera, and then photographs herself in the space, nude. Like Wallace Stevens' jar upon a hill , the presence of her small body brings these massive, damp and dirty, unknown spaces into a new focus.,Extending her aesthetic, she has made a film of Strindberg's A Dream Play set in an abandoned tunnel underneath New York City .
Richard,Pyle,A dive into the reef's Twilight Zone,Ichthyologist,hbs.bishopmuseum.org/staff/pylerichard.html,,A pioneer of the dive world, Richard Pyle discovers new biodiversity on the cliffs of coral reefs. He was among the first to use rebreather technology to explore depths between 200 and 500 feet, an area often called the Twilight Zone. During his dives, he has identified and documented hundreds of new species. Author of scientific, technical and popular articles, his expeditions have also been featured in the IMAX film Coral Reef Adventure , the BBC series Pacific Abyss and many more. In 2005, he received the NOGI Award , the most prestigious distinction of the diving world.,Currently, he is continuing his research at the Bernice P. Bishop Museum , outside Honolulu, Hawai'i, and is affiliated with the museum's comprehensive Hawaii Biological Survey . He also serves on the Board of Directors for the Association for Marine Exploration , of which he is a founding member. He continues to explore the sea and spearhead rebreather technology, and is a major contributor to the Encyclopedia of Life .
Charles,Moore,Seas of plastic,Oceanographer,www.algalita.org/,,A yachting competition across the Pacific led veteran seafarer Charles Moore to discover what some have since deemed the world's largest landfill -- actually a huge water-bound swath of floating plastic garbage the size of two Texases . Trapped in an enormous slow whirlpool called the Pacific Gyre, a mostly stagnant, plankton-rich seascape spun of massive competing air currents, this Great Pacific Garbage Patch in some places outweighs even the surface waters' biomass six-to-one.,Moore said after his return voyage,  There were shampoo caps and soap bottles and plastic bags and fishing floats as far as I could see . Here I was in the middle of the ocean, and there was nowhere I could go to avoid the plastic.
Ed,Ulbrich,How Benjamin Button got his face,Visual storyteller,imdb.com,,Ed Ulbrich spoke at TED2009 representing a team of filmmakers, artists and technologists who've been working on a significant breakthrough in visual storytelling -- a startling blurring of the line between digital creation and actor.,Ulbrich was the long time executive VP of production at Digital Domain , for whom he executive-produced Academy Award-winning visual effects for Titanic, What Dreams May Come, Fight Club, Zodiac, Adaptation and other features, as well as music videos and more than 500 commercials. He has recently exited this position but has entered into a creative consultant arrangement with the company. In 2007, he was named to the Creativity 50 -- top innovators in advertising and design.
Jill,Tarter,Join the SETI search,Astronomer,www.seti.org › Our Scientists,,Astronomer Jill Tarter is director of the SETI (Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence) Institute's Center for SETI Research, and also holder of the Bernard M. Oliver Chair for SETI. She led Project Phoenix, a decade-long SETI scrutiny of about 750 nearby star systems , using telescopes in Australia, West Virginia and Puerto Rico. While no clearly extraterrestrial signal was found, this project was the most comprehensive targeted search for artificially generated cosmic signals ever undertaken.,Tarter serves on the management board for the Allen Telescope Array, a massive new instrument that will eventually include 350 antennas, each 6 meters in diameter . This telescope will increase the speed and the spectral range of the hunt for signals from other distant technologies by orders of magnitude.
Sylvia,Earle,My wish Protect our oceans,Oceanographer,mission-blue.org,,Sylvia Earle, called Her Deepness by the New Yorker and the New York Times , Living Legend by the Library of Congress and Hero for the Planet by Time , is an oceanographer, explorer, author and lecturer with a deep commitment to research through personal exploration.,Earle's work has been at the frontier of deep ocean exploration for four decades. Earle has led more than 50 expeditions worldwide involving more than 6,000 hours underwater. As captain of the first all-female team to live underwater, she and her fellow scientists received a ticker-tape parade and White House reception upon their return to the surface. In 1979, Sylvia Earle walked untethered on the sea floor at a lower depth than any other woman before or since. In the 1980s she started the companies Deep Ocean Engineering and Deep Ocean Technologies with engineer Graham Hawkes to design and build undersea vehicles that allow scientists to work at previously inaccessible depths. In the early 1990s, Dr. Earle served as Chief Scientist of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration. At present she is explorer-in-residence at the National Geographic Society.
Gustavo,Dudamel,El Sistema's top youth orchestra,Ensemble,www.gustavodudamel.com/,,The Teresa Carreño Youth Orchestra (Sinfónica Juvenil Teresa Carreño) is the national high school age youth orchestra of El Sistema, Venezuela's groundbreaking, life-changing musical education program . To put this ensemble's musicianship in context, the Simón Bolívar Youth Orchestra of Venezuela is the next step for many of these young musicians. That orchestra, containing musicians from 18 to 28 years old, has toured the world with conductor Gustavo Dudamel and has made a number of recordings on Deutsche Grammophon. The Teresa Carreño Youth Orchestra is the next level below, and will succeed the Simón Bolívar.,Their conductor in this TEDTalk is Gustavo Dudamel , himself a product of the El Sistema . Dudamel conducted the Simón Bolívar Youth Orchestra of Venezuela for several years, and recently was named the Los Angeles Philharmonic's music director. He also continues to conduct other orchestras around the world.
Jose,Antonio,The El Sistema music revolution,Maestro,www.tedprize.org/jose-abreu/,,The gulf between the rich and the poor in Venezuela is one of the worst in the world. Jose Antonio Abreu, an economist, musician, and reformer, founded El Sistema (the system) in 1975 to help Venezuelan kids take part in classical music . After 30 years (and 10 political administrations), El Sistema is a nationwide organization of 102 youth orchestras, 55 children's orchestras, and 270 music centers -- and close to 250,000 young musicians. El Sistema uses music education to help kids from impoverished circumstances achieve their full potential and learn values that favor their growth. The talented musicians have become a source of national pride. Several El Sistema students have gone on to major international careers, including Gustavo Dudamel, soon to be the music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, and the bassist Edicson Ruiz, who at 17 became the youngest musician ever to join the Berlin Philharmonic. There is a simple concept behind Abreu's work for him an orchestra is first and foremost about together­ness , a place where children learn to listen to each other and to respect one another.,“Music has to be recognized as an ... agent of social development in the highest sense, because it transmits the highest values -- solidarity, harmony, mutual compassion. And it has the ability to unite an entire community and to express sublime feelings.” — José Antonio Abreu
Juan,Enriquez,The next species of human,Futurist, excelvm.com,,A broad thinker who studies the intersection of science, business and society, Juan Enriquez has a talent for bridging disciplines to build a coherent look ahead. Enriquez was the founding director of the Harvard Business School Life Sciences Project , and has published widely on topics from the technical (global nucleotide data flow) to the sociological (gene research and national competitiveness), and was a member of Celera Genomics founder Craig Venter 's marine-based team to collect genetic data from the world's oceans.,Formerly CEO of Mexico City's Urban Development Corporation and chief of staff for Mexico's secretary of state, Enriquez played a role in reforming Mexico's domestic policy and helped negotiate a cease-fire with Zapatista rebels. He is a Managing Director at Excel Medical Ventures , a life sciences venture capital firm, and the chair and CEO of Biotechonomy , a research and investment firm helping to fund new genomics firms. The Untied States of America looks at the forces threatening America's future as a unified country.
Barry,Schwartz,Our loss of wisdom,Psychologist,www.swarthmore.edu/SocSci/bschwar1/,,In his 2004 book The Paradox of Choice , Barry Schwartz tackles one of the great mysteries of modern life Why is it that societies of great abundance — where individuals are offered more freedom and choice (personal, professional, material) than ever before — are now witnessing a near-epidemic of depression? Conventional wisdom tells us that greater choice is for the greater good, but Schwartz argues the opposite  He makes a compelling case that the abundance of choice in today's western world is actually making us miserable. Infinite choice is paralyzing, Schwartz argues, and exhausting to the human psyche. It leads us to set unreasonably high expectations, question our choices before we even make them and blame our failures entirely on ourselves. His relatable examples, from consumer products (jeans, TVs, salad dressings) to lifestyle choices (where to live, what job to take, who and when to marry), underscore this central point Too much choice undermines happiness. Schwartz's previous research has addressed morality, decision-making and the varied inter-relationships between science and society. Before Paradox he published The Costs of Living , which traces the impact of free-market thinking on the explosion of consumerism -- and the effect of the new capitalism on social and cultural institutions that once operated above the market, such as medicine, sports, and the law . Both books level serious criticism of modern western society, illuminating the under-reported psychological plagues of our time. But they also offer concrete ideas on addressing the problems , from a personal and societal level.,“Whether choosing a health-care plan, choosing a college class or even buying a pair of jeans, Schwartz shows that a bewildering array of choices floods our exhausted brains, ultimately restricting instead of freeing us.” — Publisher’s Weekly
David,Merrill,Toy tiles that talk to each other,MIT grad student,mdavidmerrill.com/,,David Merrill is currently the VP of Product at 3D Robotics, where he builds new, easy-to-use flying robots. He was formerly president and co-founder of Sifteo, a San Francisco startup spun out of his research at the MIT Media Lab. This research helped build an award-winning physical+digital play system and catalog of unique games. He also directed HW and SW on Sifteo products.,David constantly tinkers with next-generation technologies to make physical+digital tools that give people new powers (for good).
Milton,Glaser,Using design to make ideas new,Graphic designer,www.miltonglaser.com,,Milton Glaser's work is easy to spot in a lineup -- it's simple, direct and clear, while leaping over conceptual boundaries, so that his work connects directly to the viewer like a happy virus . His best-known work may be the I [heart] N Y logo -- an image so ubiquitous, it's hard to believe there was a time when it didn't exist.,Glaser's other well-known work includes a cache of posters that defined the style of the '60s and early '70s, and numerous logos, including such instantly familiar identities as Barron's and the Brooklyn Brewery. He is a co-founder of New York magazine and helped set that magazine's honest and irreverent tone.
Elizabeth,Gilbert,Your elusive creative genius,Writer,elizabethgilbert.com,,Elizabeth Gilbert faced down a premidlife crisis by doing what we all secretly dream of -- running off for a year. Her travels through Italy, India and Indonesia resulted in the megabestselling and deeply beloved memoir Eat, Pray, Love , about her process of finding herself by leaving home. She's a longtime magazine writer -- covering music and politics for Spin and GQ -- as well as a novelist and short-story writer. Her books include the story collection Pilgrims , the novel Stern Men (about lobster fishermen in Maine) and a biography of the woodsman Eustace Conway, called The Last American Man . Her work has been the basis for two movies so far ( Coyote Ugly , based on her own tale of working at the famously raunchy bar in New York City), and Eat, Pray, Love , with the part of Gilbert played by Julia Roberts. Not bad for a year off.,In 2010, Elizabeth published Committed , a memoir exploring her ambivalent feelings about the institution of marriage. And her 2013 novel, The Signature of All Things , is a sprawling tale of 19th century botanical exploration.
Bill,Gates,Mosquitos, malaria and education,Philanthropist,gatesfoundation.org,,Bill Gates is the founder and former CEO of Microsoft. A geek icon, tech visionary and business trailblazer, Gates' leadership -- fueled by his long-held dream that millions might realize their potential through great software -- made Microsoft a personal computing powerhouse and a trendsetter in the Internet dawn. Whether you're a suit, chef, quant, artist, media maven, nurse or gamer, you've probably used a Microsoft product today. In summer of 2008, Gates left his day-to-day role with Microsoft to focus on philanthropy. Holding that all lives have equal value (no matter where they're being lived) , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has now donated staggering sums to HIV/AIDS programs, libraries, agriculture research and disaster relief -- and offered vital guidance and creative funding to programs in global health and education. Gates believes his tech-centric strategy for giving will prove the killer app of planet Earth's next big upgrade.,Read a collection of Bill and Melinda Gates' annual letters , where they take stock of the Gates Foundation and the world. And follow his ongoing thinking on his personal website, The Gates Notes . His new paper, The Next Epidemic, is published by the New England Journal of Medicine.
Bill,Gross,A solar energy system that tracks the sun,Idea guy,Idealab.com,,Bill Gross is the founder of Idealab, a business incubator focused on new ideas. (He's now the chair and CEO.) He helped create GoTo.com, the first sponsored search company. He also created the Snap! search engine, which allows users to preview hyperlinks.,Gross has been an entrepreneur since high school, when he founded a solar energy company. In college, he patented a new loudspeaker design, and after school he started a company that was later acquired by Lotus, and then launched an educational software publishing company. Now, he serves on the boards of companies in the areas of automation, software and renewable energy.
Natalie,MacMaster,Fiddling in reel time,Fiddler,www.nataliemacmaster.com,,It's not easy to make traditional Irish-Scottish music sound sexy and yet still seem wholesome. But Natalie MacMaster manages this feat, drawing listeners in with her playful showmanship , and then holding them rapt with astounding technical flourishes. The niece of renowned Canadian fiddler Buddy MacMaster , she's taken up the mantle as standard-bearer for Cape Breton fiddling, a method of Scottish-style violin-playing that's evolved over the last century on this island neighbor to Nova Scotia. The tradition was on the wane when, in 1972, a CBS documentary provocatively titled The Vanishing Cape Breton Fiddler jump-started preservation efforts in the fiddling community. MacMaster's enthusiastic charm and extraordinary skill has landed her star billing on the international folk circuit and multiple Grammy nominations. She's released nine albums, including Yours Truly (2006), Natalie and Buddy MacMaster (2005) and My Roots Are Showing (1998). She's toured with countless performers, including the Chieftains, Faith Hill, Carlos Santana and Alison Krauss, and has been awarded two Juno Awards (Canada's equivalent to the Grammy).,
Joe,DeRisi,Solving medical mysteries,Biochemist,derisilab.ucsf.edu/,,Joseph DeRisi is a molecular biologist and biochemist, on the hunt for the genomic basis of illness. His lab at UCSF is focused on the cause of malaria, and he's also poked into SARS, avian flu and other new diseases as they crop up. His approach combines scientific rigor with a nerd's boundary-breaking enthusiasm for new techniques -- one of the qualities that helped him win a MacArthur genius grant in 2004. A self-confessed computer geek, DeRisi designed and programmed a groundbreaking tool for finding (and fighting) viruses -- the ViroChip, a DNA microarray that test for the presence of all known viruses in one step.,In 2008, DeRisi won the Heinz Award for Technology, the Economy and Employment.
Aimee,Mullins,Changing my legs - and my mindset,Athlete and actor,www.aimeemullins.com/,,Aimee Mullins was born without fibular bones, and had both of her legs amputated below the knee when she was an infant. She learned to walk on prosthetics, then to run -- competing at the national and international level as a champion sprinter, and setting world records at the 1996 Paralympics in Atlanta. At Georgetown, where she double-majored in history and diplomacy, she became the first double amputee to compete in NCAA Division 1 track and field.,After school, Mullins did some modeling -- including a legendary runway show for Alexander McQueen -- and then turned to acting, appearing as the Leopard Queen in Matthew Barney's Cremaster Cycle. In 2008 she was the official Ambassador for the Tribeca/ESPN Sports Film Festival.
Peter,Ward,A theory of Earth's mass extinctions,Paleontologist,https//www.ess.washington.edu/.../profile.php?.,,Paleontologist and astrobiologist Peter D. Ward studies the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction event (the one that killed the dinosaurs) and other mass extinctions. He is a leader in the intriguing new field of astrobiology , the study of the origin, distribution and evolution of life in the universe.,In his book Rare Earth he theorizes that complex life itself is so rare, it's quite possible that Earth is the only planet that has any . But, he theorizes, simple life may exist elsewhere -- and possibly be more common than we think.
Woody,Norris,Hypersonic sound and other inventions,Inventor, woodynorris.com,,When Woody Norris won the Lemelson-MIT Prize in 2005, his official prize bio called him a classic independent inventor ... self-educated, self-funded and self-motivated. His mind seems to race toward things the world needs, though we don't know it yet a nonlethal acoustic weapon that has been used to ward off pirates, a bone-induction headset, radar that can scan the human body, a tapeless tape recorder ...,Norris' educational background is a key to his restless mind. He is not quite self-educated -- he's taken many classes, but always at his own speed and in his own style, studying the things he knew he wanted to know and working closely with professors. Ironically, it's a model that cutting-edge colleges are now embracing.
Sherwin,Nuland,The extraordinary power of ordinary people,Doctor,www.nytimes.com/.../sherwin-b-nuland-author-wh,,Sherwin Nuland was a practicing surgeon for 30 years and treated more than 10,000 patients -- then became an author and speaker on topics no smaller than life and death, our minds, our morality, aging and the human spirit.,His 1994 book How We Die Reflections of Life's Final Chapter demythologizes the process of dying. Through stories of real patients and his own family, he examines the seven most common causes of death old age, cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer's, accidents, heart disease and stroke, and their effects. The book, one of more than a dozen he wrote, won the National Book Award, was a finalist for the Pultizer Prize, and spent 34 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list. Other books include How We Live , The Art of Aging A Doctor's Prescription for Well-Being , and The Soul of Medicine Tales from the Bedside .
Barry,Schuler,Genomics 101,Entrepreneur,barryschuler.com/,,If in the mid-'90s tech revolution you found yourself intimidated by command lines (or computers in general), chances are you had your first encounter with email through America Online. Above those first-month-free CDs, the main appeal was its easy-as-a-microwave interface, which Barry Schuler and his team at Medior designed. While the other techies were complaining of eternal September , Schuler remained a populist, passionate about spreading accessibility to the next generation of services that he foresaw changing the world. (Earlier, he had developed and marketed color desktop apps for Apple.),Schuler later served as AOL's CEO when it acquired Time Warner. But now, as high-tech democratization continues, Schuler wants to direct the momentum toward genomics . As managing director of Draper Fisher Jurvetson , he's funding next-thing projects in tech, and he also serves on the board of Synthetic Genomics . A lover of wine (and a proponent of using genetics to enhance wine grapes), he owns Meteor Vineyard in Napa Valley. He's currently CEO of Raydiance , which is developing laser technology for healthcare use.
Jamais,Cascio,Tools for a better world,World-builder, openthefuture.com,,Unlike the scores of futurists peddling nightmare scenarios of global catastrophe and social meltdown, Jamais Cascio proposes a different, often surprising alternative What if human beings, and all of our technology, could actually manage to change things for the better? The strangely plausible worlds Cascio imagines far outstrip conventional thinking worlds in which surveillance is universal, networks are embedded in all aspects of life, and the Web augments our very eyesight. But rather than focusing on the obvious Orwellian aspects of these looming changes, Cascio suggests that the rapid democratization of these technologies will be empowering rather than enslaving.,After acting as the co-founder of WorldChanging.com, Cascio has, since 2006, made his online home at OpenTheFuture.com . Recently, he was part of Superstruct , part of the Institute for the Future's 2009 Ten-Year Forecast. He's now working on a set of 50-year scenarios that will serve as framing material for the TYF & Superstruct content. He's also at work on a book on the use of foresight as a way of dealing with periods of significant uncertainty and change .
David,Carson,Design and discovery,Type designer,www.davidcarsondesign.com/,,David Carson's boundary-breaking typography in the 1990s, in Ray Gun magazine and other pop-cult books, ushered in a new vision of type and page design -- quite simply, breaking the traditional mold of type on a page and demanding fresh eyes from the reader. Squishing, smashing, slanting and enchanting the words on a layout, Carson made the point, over and over, that letters on a page are art. You can see the repercussions of his work to this day, on a million Flash intro pages (and probably just as many skateboards and T-shirts).,His first book, with Lewis Blackwell and a foreword by David Byrne, is The End of Print , and he's written or collaborated on several others, including the magisterial Book of Probes , an exploration of the thinking of Marshall McLuhan. His latest book is Trek , a collection of his recent work.
Paula,Scher,Great design is serious, not solemn,Designer at play,new.pentagram.com/category/partners/paula-scher/,,The tag rock star is recklessly applied to everyone from bloggers to biochemists, but in Paula Scher's case it couldn't be more appropriate. As a rock star designer, she's cooked up everything from Boston album covers to Elvis Costello posters , pausing somewhere in between to trash the ubiquitous visual authoritarianism of Helvetica. She's also created some of design's most iconic images, like the Citibank logo. She is a partner in the renowned design firm Pentagram, and in 2001 received the distinguished AIGA medal.,As a fine artist, Scher has also become increasingly well known for her microscopically detailed map paintings, densely latticed with hand-lettered text , that evoke not only place but the varied political, historical and cultural meanings (and preconceptions) brought to the world by the viewer.
Joseph,Pine,What consumers want,Writer,www.strategichorizons.com/joePine.html,,Joseph Pine's career as a business coach began at IBM when he did something truly unorthodox he brought business partners and customers into the development process of a new computer. Taking from this the lesson that every customer is unique, he wrote a book called Mass Customization on businesses that serve customers' unique needs. Later he discovered what he would coin the Experience Economy -- consumers buying experiences rather than goods or commodities -- and wrote a book of the same name.,Pine and his friend Jim Gilmore have since turned their focus to authenticity , which they argue is the main criterion people use when deciding what to buy. (The idea was featured in TIME 's 10 Ideas That Are Changing the World, and also became a book.) They joke that their company, Strategic Horizons , ought to be called Frameworks 'R' Us, after their specialty in helping others see business differently.
Peter,Reinhart,The art and craft of bread,Baker,peterreinhart.typepad.com/,,Peter Reinhart's food work began as ministry outreach and later became a full-fledged culinary and teaching career. Both an educator and lay minister, his lessons focus on both secular and spiritual education . One of his books, Bread Upon the Waters A Pilgrimage Toward Self Discovery and Spiritual Truth is first in a series of books exploring nourishment in terms of food and one's life mission.,Reinhart is founder of the award-winning Brother Juniper's Bakery in Santa Rosa, California. He's now a full-time faculty member in the International Baking and Pastry Institute at Johnson and Wales University. He has also developed a line of frozen gourmet pizzas, calzones, toaster snacks and bagels for Amy's Kitchen .
Scott,McCloud,The visual magic of comics,Cartoonist,scottmccloud.com/,,If not for Scott McCloud, graphic novels and webcomics might be enjoying a more modest Renaissance. The flourishing of cartooning in the '90s and '00s, particularly comic-smithing on the web, can be traced back to his major writings on the comics form. The first, Understanding Comics , is translated into 13 languages, and along with Reinventing Comics and Making Comics , its playful and profound investigations are justly revered as something like the Poetics of sequential art . McCloud coined the term infinite canvas -- for the new comics medium made possible by web browsers. He's an avid user of the medium My Obsession With Chess was widely popular online, as was The Right Number . Back on the printed page, he wrote and illustrated Zot! , a colorful response to then-trendy grimness and gore in comic books. (He describes the book as a cross between Peter Pan, Buck Rogers and Marshall McLuhan.),He's the inventor of the game 5-Card Nancy .
Rob,Forbes,Ways of seeing,Designer,studioforbes.com/,,A decade ago, if you wanted to buy a piece of classic modern furniture for your house -- say, a classic Eames chaise longue -- you had basically two options make friends with a commercial office designer who could order you a piece from the supplier, or wait until your neighborhood psychiatrist redecorated his office and put all the 1960s-vintage Eames chairs out on the curb. Rob Forbes, a potter with a background in retail, saw a market for clean, modern design made available to regular people, and turned this idea into the brilliant nationwide chain and catalog Design Within Reach.,Along with new and classic home goods, DWR became a platform for Forbes' way of seeing. The early-2000-vintage DWR newsletters were packed with colorful images from Forbes' travels and news about designers he loved . And this is not to forget each holiday's annual champagne chair contest -- in which DWR fans were challenged to create a miniature modern masterpiece from the foil, wire and cork of a bottle of bubbly.
Greg,Lynn,Organic algorithms in architecture,Designer,glform.com/,,Who says great architecture must be proportional and symmetrical? Not Greg Lynn. He and his firm, Greg Lynn FORM, have been pushing the edges of building design, by stripping away the traditional dictates of line and proportion and looking into the heart of what a building needs to be.,A series of revelations about building practice --  Vertical structure is overrated ,  Symmetry is bankrupt  -- helped Lynn and his studio conceptualize a new approach, which uses calculus, sophisticated modeling tools, and an embrace of new manufacturing techniques to make buildings that, at their core, enclose space in the best possible way . The New York Presbyterian church that Lynn designed with Douglas Garofalo and Michael McInturf, collaborating remotely, is a glorious example of this -- as a quiet industrial building is transformed into a space for worship and contemplation with soaring, uniquely shaped and tuned elements.
Paul,Moller,My dream of a flying car,Inventor, moller.com,,Paul Moller is the president, CEO and chair of Moller International, a company devoted to engineering the combination of automobile and jet known as the Moller Skycar. His company also works on the M200, a low-flying disc, or volantor, that may go into production later in 2009 . (As cool as it looks, the M200 has serious applications as a rescue vehicle.) A partner company, Freedom Motors, builds the Rotapower engine.,Moller developed the Aeronautical Engineering program at UC Davis while a professor there from 1963 to 1975. In 1972 he founded SuperTrapp Industries, and also led the group that developed the Davis Research Park Complex between 1975 and 1983. He's been working on VTOL (vertical takeoff and landing) personal vehicles since the late 1960s.
Paul,Sereno,Digging up dinosaurs,Paleontologist,www.paulsereno.org/,,Paul Sereno sees paleontology as  adventure with a purpose . How else, after all, to describe a science that allows you to romp in remote corners of the globe, resurrecting gargantuan creatures that have never been seen? His travels in the search for the bones of ancient reptiles and birds have taken him through India, Argentina, Mongolia and, most fruitfully, the 125-degrees-Farenheit Saraha Desert, where he uncovered the giant skeletons of several 30-plus-foot meat-eaters and a few yet-larger prehistoric vegetarians.,Sereno is also president and co-founder of Project Exploration , an organization which aims to bring the wonders of science professions to the public -- especially minority youth and girls . He teaches at the University of Chicago and is one of National Geographic 's Explorers-in-Residence.
John,Maeda,My journey in design,Artist, our.risd.edu,,When John Maeda became president of the legendary Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) in 2008, he told the Wall Street Journal , Everyone asks me, 'Are you bringing technology to RISD?' I tell them, no, I'm bringing RISD to technology.,In his fascinating career as a programmer and an artist, he's always been committed to blurring the lines between the two disciplines. As a student at MIT, studying computer programming, the legendary Muriel Cooper persuaded him to follow his parallel passion for fine art and design. And when computer-aided design began to explode in the mid-1990s, Maeda was in a perfect position at the MIT Media Lab to influence and shape the form, helping typographers and page designers explore the freedom of the web.
Kary,Mullis,Play! Experiment! Discover!,Biochemist, karymullis.com,,In the early 1980s, Kary Mullis developed the polymerase chain reaction , an elegant way to make copies of a DNA strand using the enzyme polymerase and some basic DNA building blocks. The process opened the door to more in-depth study of DNA -- like the Human Genome Project. Mullis shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing this technique.,As he tells it, after winning the Nobel Prize, his next career move was to learn how to surf. It's typical of Mullis, whose scientific method is to get deeply curious about a topic, work it out from first principles, and then imagine the next giant leap forward. As he puts it in his Nobel autobiography , revised several times since 1993, I read a lot, and think a lot, and I can talk about almost anything. Being a Nobel laureate is a license to be an expert in lots of things as long as you do your homework.
Jennifer,8,The hunt for General Tso,Reporter,www.jennifer8lee.com/,,Jennifer 8. Lee is a reporter for the New York Times , starting with the paper as a tech writer for the Circuits section. She's now a metropolitan reporter for the paper, turning in sparkling and intricately reported stories of city life. NPR called her a conceptual scoop artist -- finding and getting details on new lifestyle trends that we all want to talk about.,Her fascination with American Chinese food led her to research and write The Fortune Cookie Chronicles , in which she solves some of the enduring mysteries around this indigenous cuisine, including such questions as Who is General Tso and why are we eating his chicken? and Why do Jews eat Chinese food on Christmas?
Nicholas,Negroponte,Taking OLPC to Colombia,Tech visionary,www.media.mit.edu/~nicholas/,,A pioneer in the field of computer-aided design, Negroponte founded (and was the first director of) MIT's Media Lab , which helped drive the multimedia revolution and now houses more than 500 researchers and staff across a broad range of disciplines. An original investor in Wired (and the magazine's patron saint), for five years he penned a column exploring the frontiers of technology -- ideas that he expanded into his 1995 best-selling book Being Digital . An angel investor extraordinaire, he's funded more than 40 startups, and served on the boards of companies such as Motorola and Ambient Devices.,But his latest effort, the One Laptop per Child project, may prove his most ambitious. The organization is designing, manufacturing and distributing low-cost, wireless Internet-enabled computers costing roughly $100 and aimed at children. Negroponte hopes to put millions of these devices in the hands of children in the developing world.
Steven,Strogatz,The science of sync,Mathematician,www.stevenstrogatz.com/,,Steven Strogatz studies some of the most interesting problems in applied mathematics -- such as the intersection of math and biology, looking for patterns in the human sleep-wake cycle or in swarms of blinking fireflies. He's been looking at nonlinear dynamics and chaos applied to physics, engineering and biology, and branching out into new areas, such as explorating of the small-world phenomenon in social networks (popularly known as six degrees of separation), and its generalization to other complex networks in nature and technology.,Strogatz' work has been in the news as British engineers released the definitive paper on the Millenium Bridge wobble , and its roots in how people walk on an unpredictable surface.
Penelope,Boston,There might just be life on Mars,Cave scientist,www.caveslime.org/people/,,Penelope Boston is fascinated by caves -- secret, mineral environments that shelter mysteries in beguiling darkness and stillness. She's spent most of her career studying caves and karst formations ( karst is a formation where a bedrock, such as limestone, is eaten away by water to form underground voids), and is the cofounder of the new National Cave and Karst Research Institute , based in New Mexico.,Deep inside caves, there's a biology that is like no other on Earth, protected from surface stress and dependent on cave conditions for its survival. As part of her work with caves, Boston studies this life -- and has made the very sensible suggestion that, if odd forms of life lie quietly undiscovered in Earth's caves, there's a good chance it might also have arisen in caves and karst on other planets. Now, she's working on some new ways to look for it
Benjamin,Wallace,The price of happiness,Author,www.benjaminwallace.net/,,A Washington D.C. native and a current Brooklynite, Benjamin Wallace is fast establishing himself a master of the brainy nonfiction thriller , rooting up feuds and controversies in pop and less-than-pop culture while buddying up with their embattled and larger-than-life personalities (whom he sometimes meets on their way down). He profiled conserative mouthpiece Glenn Beck for GQ in 2007 shortly after the pundit landed a controversial slot on CNN, and in 2002 looked at chef Georges Perrier of Philidelphia's then-five-star restaurant, Le Bec-Fin.,Wallace's orderly, deadpan writing style hints at one of his secrets his love (and talent) for playing the straight man to the once-mighty in downfall , right as they go aflame in tragicomic hubris. ( The Billionaire's Vinegar is simply a pleasure, not least to schadenfreude junkies.) It's easy to imagine him, the bespectacled wallflower, watching as brouhaha over a wine bottle once valued at $165,000 -- the highest price fetched for a bottle, ever -- culimates in a court trial that reveals at least two of its main characters, a wine collector and a wine expert, to be frauds. Or at least emperors with no clothes.
Dan,Gilbert,Why we make bad decisions,Psychologist, happiness expert,www.danielgilbert.com/,,Dan Gilbert believes that, in our ardent, lifelong pursuit of happiness, most of us have the wrong map. In the same way that optical illusions fool our eyes -- and fool everyone's eyes in the same way -- Gilbert argues that our brains systematically misjudge what will make us happy . And these quirks in our cognition make humans very poor predictors of our own bliss. The premise of his current research -- that our assumptions about what will make us happy are often wrong -- is supported with clinical research drawn from psychology and neuroscience. But his delivery is what sets him apart. His engaging -- and often hilarious -- style pokes fun at typical human behavior and invokes pop-culture references everyone can relate to. This winning style translates also to Gilbert's writing, which is lucid, approachable and laugh-out-loud funny . The immensely readable Stumbling on Happiness , published in 2006, became a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 20 languages. In fact, the title of his book could be drawn from his own life. At 19, he was a high school dropout with dreams of writing science fiction. When a creative writing class at his community college was full, he enrolled in the only available course psychology. He found his passion there, earned a doctorate in social psychology in 1985 at Princeton, and has since won a Guggenheim Fellowship and the Phi Beta Kappa teaching prize for his work at Harvard. He has written essays and articles for The New York Times, Time and even Starbucks , while continuing his research into happiness at his Hedonic Psychology Laboratory .,“Gilbert's elbow-in-the-ribs social-science humor is actually funny. ... But underneath the goofball brilliance, [he] has a serious argument to make about why human beings are forever wrongly predicting what will make them happy.” — New York Times Book Review
Jay,Walker,My library of human imagination,Entrepreneur,www.walkerdigital.com/jay-walker_meet-jay.html,,It's befitting that an entrepreneur and inventor so prolific and acclaimed would curate a library devoted, as he says, to the astonishing capabilities of the human imagination. TIME twice named him one of the 50 most influential business leaders in the digital age, and he holds more than 200 patents. Jay Walker's companies -- under Walker Digital -- have alone served tens of millions of people and amassed billions in value.,A chunk of his net worth went into building this enchanting library space, whose exhibits (please touch!) go back, roughly, to the point our species learned to write, with a slight post-moveable type bias. Brimming with exquisitely illustrated books and artifacts (Enigma machine, velociraptor skeleton), the library itself is a marvel. Is it the glowing etched glass panels, or the Vivaldi piped from hidden speakers that gives it that je ne sais quoi? Maybe it's Walker himself, whose passion for the stuff just glows. It's apparent to those lucky enough to snag a tour.
Dennis,vanEngelsdorp,A plea for bees,Bee expert,www.vanengelsdorpbeelab.com/dr-dennis-vanengelsdorp.html,,Imagine if one of every three cows died. The National Guard would be out. It's a grim premise, but a favorite of Dennis vanEngelsdorp, who in 2008 watched the same percentage of bees vanish in North America. A leading apiarist, vanEngelsdorp knows the disturbing consequences of the bee die-off . Colony collapse disorder (its official name) is complex and mysterious, driven by pesticides, toxins and disease, and threatens not only the existence of the insect but also the food they pollinate -- a third of what we eat.,But vanEngelsdorp is not a pessimist, however worrisome the situation. Since finding his love for bees in an undergraduate beekeeping course, he's steadily chewed through new degree programs, becoming an outspoken bee crusader, generating global buzz -- sorry -- for the fascinating critters their workers' dance, their convenient chronic case of static cling ...
Eva,Zeisel,The playful search for beauty,Designer,www.evazeisel.org/,,Young Eva Zeisel was driven by two desires to make beautiful things, and to see the world. Her long and legendary career in ceramics helped her do both. Born in Budapest in 1906, she apprenticed to a guild of potters as a teenager, then worked in Germany and later Russia (where she was imprisoned by Stalin for 16 months) and Vienna. Landing in New York in 1938 with her husband Hans, Zeisel began her second design career.,In the American postwar period, Zeisel's work simply defined the era. Organic shapes, toned colors, a sense of fun and play -- her Town and Country line for Red Wing in particular evokes an urbane early-1950s kitchen where you'd be likely to get an excellent cup of coffee and some good conversation.
David,Holt,The joyful tradition of mountain music,Folk musician,www.davidholt.com/,,As a youngster, David Holt knew he wanted to master the banjo. His quest to that end brought him into the tucked-away communities of the remote Appalachian Mountains , where traditional folk music is still ingrained in the way of life. In his years there, he met some too-enchanting-to-be-true characters and a few local living legends (Wade Mainer, Dellie Norton) -- complete with anecdotes from older and harder times. He also picked up some unusual musical skills beyond the banjo he's now a virtuoso of the mouth bow, the bottleneck slide guitar and the paper bag.,Holt has won four Grammys and has starred in several radio and television programs, such as Folkways, which visits regional craftsmen and musicians. (He also performed in the 2000 film, O Brother, Where Art Thou? .) He currently tours the country doing solo performances, and accompanied by his band The Lightning Bolts.
Nick,Sears,Demo The Orb,Inventor,www.cousins-sears.com/the-orb,,Nick Sears is a classic tinkerer -- his resume lists jobs that run the gamut from writing a mobile messaging framework to building a DC-DC switching voltage regulator. Along with his dad, Ron Sears, he's got a pretty neat father-son project going on the Orb.,It's inspired by Buckminster Fuller's 1962 proposal for the Geoscope, which called for a 200-foot-diameter sphere covered with 10 million computer-controlled light sources to be suspended over the East River in full view of the United Nations. But by making the sphere spin, the Sears realized, they could use persistence of vision and LEDs to create a bright display with a three-dimensional effect using far fewer light sources.
Larry,Burns,The future of cars,Automotive researcher,www.larryburnsforsheriff.com/,,Larry Burns is on a mission to reinvent the automobile using nonpolluting hydrogen fuel cells. As the vice president of R&D and strategic planning at GM, he's one of the people who will be called on to lead the US auto industry into its next incarnation .,Burns has been a persistent advocate of hydrogen power and other advanced propulsion and materials technologies for cars. His thinking is, the industry can keep making small energy improvements in the current cars it makes -- or it can take a big leap forward to build a whole new kind of car.
Philip,Rosedale,Life in Second Life,Entrepreneur,longnow.org/.../second-life-what-do-we-learn-if-..,,A tinkerer since childhood and an entrepreneur since he was a teenager, Philip Rosedale was always captivated with the idea of simulated reality and imaginary environments. He worked as CTO of RealNetworks until computing technology caught up with his fancies. Then he founded Linden Labs and built a virtual civilization called Second Life . That environment now boasts milions of citizens and a buzzing economy (currency Linden dollars) that represents over $10 million in real value.,Second Life may be artificial but it's hardly trivial, Rosedale says. Its appeal to human creativity is obvious, but beyond the thriving in-world industries and bustling social spaces , real-life businesses (and even some religious organizations) are using Second Life as a platform for meetings, services and collaboration.
Richard,Preston,The mysterious lives of giant trees,Writer, RichardPreston.net,,Richard Preston is one of the only humans to have climbed Hyperion, a nearly 380-foot redwood tree that is the tallest living thing on Earth . Hyperion was discovered by explorer Michael Taylor while Preston was writing his latest full-length book, The Wild Trees . His earlier book The Hot Zone sold millions of copies, spawned a movie, and made the Ebola virus horrifyingly familiar. The book is part of his Dark Biology trilogy, which includes the novel The Cobra Event and The Demon in the Freezer , a look at the bioterror implications of smallpox. He is a regular contributor to The New Yorker. His latest book, Panic in Level Fou r, is a collection of reportage on a wonderful range of topics, from mathematical geniuses to trees to one of the most shocking medical conditions you can imagine. (This is the book that was passed around the TED offices with the note, Don't read the final chapter while eating.),“Richard Preston ... is a science writer with an uncommon gift for turning complex biology into riveting page-turners.” — Grace Lichtenstein, The Washington Post
Gregory,Petsko,The coming neurological epidemic,Bioengineer,vivo.med.cornell.edu/display/cwid-gpetsko,,Gregory Petsko's own biography, on his Brandeis faculty homepage, might seem intimidatingly abstruse to the non-biochemist -- he studies the structural basis for efficient enzymic catalysis of proton and hydride transfer, the role of the metal ions in bridged bimetalloenzyme active sites, direct visualization of proteins in action by time-resolved protein crystallography, the evolution of new enzyme activities from old ones, and the biology of the quiescent state in eukaryotic cells.,But for someone so deeply in touch with the minutest parts of our bodies, Petsko is also a wide-ranging mind, concerned about larger health policy issues. The effect of mass population shifts -- such as our current trend toward a senior-citizen society -- maps onto his world of tiny proteins to create a compeling new worldview.
Andy,Hobsbawm,Do the green thing,Internet entrepreneur,evrythng.com,,Internet marketing pioneer Andy Hobsbawm was the European chair of the digital services firm Agency.com. He founded the first international Internet agency in 1994, and was a founder of Online Magic, a firm that merged with Agency.com in 1997.,Merging his passions for ads and the environment, he's a cofounder of the website Green Thing , which shares seven fun, punchy little (and big) ways to go green, using clever video and graphics to get across a message of accessible greening. He’s also a founder and the chief marketing officer of internet of things software company EVRYTHNG , which aims to give every physical object in the world it’s own intelligent identity on the Web.
Dan,Barber,A foie gras parable,Chef,www.thethirdplate.com/,,Dan Barber is the chef at New York's Blue Hill restaurant, and Blue Hill at Stone Barns in Westchester, where he practices a kind of close-to-the-land cooking married to agriculture and stewardship of the earth. As described on Chez Pim  Stone Barns is only 45 minutes from Manhattan, but it might as well be a whole different universe. A model of self-sufficiency and environmental responsibility, Stone Barns is a working farm, ranch, and a three-Michelin-star-worthy restaurant. It's a vision of a new kind of food chain.,Barber's philosophy of food focuses on pleasure and thoughtful conservation -- on knowing where the food on your plate comes from and the unseen forces that drive what we eat. He's written on US agricultural policies, asking for a new vision that does not throw the food chain out of balance by subsidizing certain crops at the expense of more appropriate ones.
Bill,Joy,What I'm worried about, what I'm excited about,Technologist and futurist,www.imdb.com/name/nm2699317/,,In 2003, Bill Joy left Sun Microsystems, the computer company he cofounded, with no definite plans. He'd spent the late 1970s and early 1980s working on Berkeley UNIX (he wrote the vi editor), and the next decades building beautiful high-performance workstations at Sun. Always, he'd been a kind of polite engineer-gadfly -- refusing to settle for subpar code or muddled thinking.,In 2000, with a landmark cover story in Wired called Why the Future Doesn't Need Us, Joy began to share his larger concerns with the world. A careful observer of the nanotech industry that was growing up around his own industry, Joy saw a way forward that, frankly, frightened him. He saw a very plausible future in which our own creations supplanted us -- if not out and out killed us (e.g., the gray goo problem). His proposed solution Proceed with caution.
George,Smoot,The design of the universe,Astrophysicist,aether.lbl.gov/,,George Smoot looks into the farthest reaches of space to the oldest objects in the known universe fluctuations in the remnants of creation. Using data collected from satellites such as COBE and WMAP , scanning the cosmic microwave background radiation (a relic of the heat unleashed after the Big Bang), he probes the shape of the universe. In 1992 he and his Berkeley team discovered that the universe, once thought to be smooth and uniform at the largest scale, is actually anisotropic -- or varied and lumpy.,Smoot continues to investigate of the structure of the universe at the University of California at Berkeley, mapping billions of galaxies and filaments of dark matter in hope of uncovering the secrets of the universe's origins.
Franco,Sacchi,A tour of Nollywood, Nigeria's booming film industry,Filmmaker,www.francosacchi.com/,,Franco Sacchi's film This Is Nollywood represents one of the most compelling and profound stories of self-generated storytelling and commerce in the developing world. Out of nothing springs an industry that is reputed to be the third-largest film industry worldwide.This, says the Zambia-born, Italy-bred documentary filmmaker, is an irresistible story for those looking view Africa from a different perspective.,From the Director's Statement
Isaac,Mizrahi,Fashion and creativity,Fashion designer,www.isaacmizrahi.com/,,Design-wise, Isaac Mizrahi is best known for bridging the gap between high and low -- creating gorgeous couture confections for the likes of Eartha Kitt and others, as well as a hugely popular, groundbreakingly affordable line for Target.,His design mission comes wrapped in endless charisma . He's a talk-show host, he's performed his own one-man show Off-Broadway, he was the subject of the hilarious documentary Unzipped , and he does regular cabaret nights at Joe's Pub in New York City. His new book is called How to Have Style .
Stewart,Brand,The Long Now,Environmentalist, futurist,sb.longnow.org/,,With biotech accelerating four times faster than digital technology, the revival of extinct species is becoming possible. Stewart Brand plans to not only bring species back but restore them to the wild.,Brand is already a legend in the tech industry for things he’s created the Whole Earth Catalog , The WELL, the Global Business Network, the Long Now Foundation, and the notion that “information wants to be free.” Now Brand, a lifelong environmentalist, wants to re-create -- or “de-extinct” -- a few animals that’ve disappeared from the planet.
Ursus,Wehrli,Tidying up art,Comedian,www.kunstaufraeumen.ch,,Comedian and cabaret artist Ursus Wehrli is the author of Tidying Up Art , a visionary manifesto that yearns toward a more rational, more organized and cleaner form of modern art. In deconstructing the work of Paul Klee, Jaspen Johns and other masters into its component parts, organized by color and size, Wehrli posits a more perfect art world.,His book The Art of Clean Up extends this principle into the physical world, with extremely (though oddly) satisfying results. Click through to see what a bowl of alphabet soup would look like in Wehrli's world.
Charles,Elachi,The story behind the Mars Rovers,Planetary scientist,www.jpl.nasa.gov/about/bio_elachi.php,,Charles Elachi is the director of NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab at Caltech . He leads JPL's efforts to build robots that explore space -- including the surprisingly long-lived Mars Rovers. In the wake of the Rovers' success (and even fame), it's worth remembering that they grew out of some troubled earlier attempts to reach Mars. Elachi's careful management of the Rover program, wrote the US News and World Report , was a key piece of its success. And Elachi gives equal credit to some extraordinary luck.,As JPL's director for space and Earth science programs from 1982 to 2000, and then its head since then, he's led the development of many new instruments and programs for observing Earth and exploring the planets. It's in part thanks to him that, as of May 2008, we have 17 different robots exploring space. His own academic specialty is active microwave remote sensing and electromagnetic theory.
Samantha,Power,A complicated hero in the war on dictatorship,Political scientist and journalist,https//www.whitehouse.gov/blog/author/samantha-power,,Samantha Power is head of Harvard's Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, where she studies US policy as it relates to human rights, genocide and war. She's the author of a famous memo (in policy circles) suggesting that US foreign policy is utterly broken -- that the United States must return to a human rights-centered foreign policy or risk its prestige and respect in the world community . Her latest book is about Sergio Vieira de Mello , a UN diplomat who worked with the world's worst dictators to help protect the human rights of their people.,Power is also a journalist of fearless reputation. She spent 1993 to '96 reporting in the former Yugoslavia , and now contributes reportage and commentary to the New Yorker and Time . Her other books include A Problem from Hell America and the Age of Genocide.
Lee,Smolin,Science and democracy,Physicist,leesmolin.com/,,Lee Smolin's bachelor's degree was in physics and philosophy -- twin passions that have complemented one another throughout his blazing career as a theoretical physicist. As his website bio is careful to state,  His main contributions to research so far are to the field of quantum gravity.  He's made contributions in many other fields, including cosmology, quantum mechanics, elementary particle physics and theoretical biology, and is the author of (among other books) The Trouble With Physics , a work that questions the very basis of the prevailing string theory.,Taking a step back from work on specific problems in physics, Smolin's work examines the scientific process itself and its place in the world . In all of his three books, Life of the Cosmos, Three Roads to Quantum Gravity and The Trouble with Physics , he wrestles with the philosophical implications of what contemporary physics has shown us to be true. As we come to understand more about how the world works, he asks, how will our worldview change?
Luca,Turin,The science of scent,Nose,www.perfumestheguide.com/,,Biophysicist Luca Turin studies the science of smell. He's a leading proponent of the vibrational theory of smell -- the idea that when our noses pick up a scent, we're reacting to the vibrational properties of the molecule we're smelling. (This is in opposition to the shape theory of smell, which imagines smelly molecules fitting into conveniently shaped receptors in our noses.),His work on olfactory reception and the prediction of what a particular molecule will smell like has led to an interesting line of work designing new fragrances and flavor molecules, as part of the firm Flexitral, where he is CTO. Coming up, he'll be part of a team in Biomedical Engineering at MIT , headed by Professor Shuguang Zhang, to develop an artificial nose made with natural receptors as part of DARPA 's just-launched RealNose program.
Tim,Brown,Tales of creativity and play,Designer,https//www.ideo.com/people/tim-brown,,Tim Brown is the CEO of innovation and design firm IDEO, taking an approach to design that digs deeper than the surface. Having taken over from founder David E. Kelley , Tim Brown carries forward the firm's mission of fusing design, business and social studies to come up with deeply researched, deeply understood designs and ideas -- they call it design thinking.,IDEO is the kind of firm that companies turn to when they want a top-down rethink of a business or product -- from fast food conglomerates to high-tech startups, hospitals to universities.
John,Francis,Walk the earth ... my 17-year vow of silence,Planet walker,johnfrancismusic.com/,,One day in 1983, John Francis stepped out on a walk. For the next 22 years, he trekked and sailed around North and South America, carrying a message of respect for the Earth -- for 17 of those years, without speaking. During his monumental, silent trek, he earned an MA in environmental studies and a PhD in land resources.,Today his Planetwalk foundation consults on sustainable development and works with educational groups to teach kids about the environment.
James,Surowiecki,The power and the danger of online crowds,Finance journalist,newyorker.com,,James Surowiecki has been reporting on finance and human behavior since the days of the Motley Fool on AOL. He's had a ringside seat for some roller-coaster times in business , but always, his focus has been on regular people -- not titans of Wall Street, but you and me. In 2004, he published The Wisdom of Crowds , an exploration of the hive mind as it plays out in business and in other arenas of life.,Surowiecki is the finance writer for the New Yorker , and writes a lively and funny (and lately, indispensable) blog for newyorker.com, The Balance Sheet. His other books include the wonderfully titled but sadly quite relevant Best Business Crime Writing of 2003 .
Graham,Hawkes,A flight through the ocean,Inventor,oneocean.cbc.ca/series/experts/graham-hawkes,,Graham Hawkes has created a new generation of high-tech undersea vessels that truly augment the way terrestrials experience the immense, otherworldly habitats of the oceans. His Deep Flight submersibles look like airplanes and behave like ocean creatures, using their wings and unique propulsion to gracefully soar and somersault into the deep -- giving their pilot an unprecedented 3D perspective. According to his website, Hawkes' designs account for a significant percentage of manned and unmanned vehicles used by science and industry.,Hawkes leads Hawkes Ocean Technologies , whose submersibles were featured in James Cameron's 3D IMAX film, Aliens of the Deep . His company also produced the WASP and Mantis Atmospheric Diving Suits, built to facilitate undersea pipelaying. Hawkes currently holds the world record for the deepest solo dive -- 3,000 feet -- using one of his own inventions, the Deep Rover submersible.
Robert,Wright,The evolution of compassion,Journalist, philosopher,www.nonzero.org/,,Author Robert Wright thinks the crises the human species now faces are moral in nature, and that our salvation lies in the intelligent pursuit of self-interest. In his book Nonzero , Wright argues that life depends on a non-zero-sum dynamic. While a zero-sum game depends on a winner and loser, all parties in a non-zero-sum game win or lose together, so players will more likely survive if they cooperate. This points to an optimistic future of ultimate cooperation among humans -- if we recognize the game. Well-respected for his erudition and original thinking (Bill Clinton hailed him as a genius), Wright draws from multiple disciplines -- including science, religion, history and politics -- in his search for big-picture perspectives on today's problems , particularly terrorism, while offering guarded hope for where we might be headed. A Schwartz Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation , Wright also hosts an interview series with celebrated thinkers at Meaningoflifetv.com .,Wright's newest book, The Evolution of God , explores the history of the idea of God in the three Abrahamic religions, Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
Robert,Thurman,Expanding your circle of compassion,Buddhist scholar,https//bobthurman.com/,,Tenzin Robert Thurman became a Tibetan monk at age 24. He's a professor of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist studies at Columbia University, and co-founder of Tibet House US , a nonprofit dedicated to the preservation and promotion of Tibetan civilization . Thurman's focus is on the balance between inner insight and cultural harmony. In interpreting the teachings of Buddha, he argues that happiness can be reliable and satisfying in an enduring way without depriving others . He has translated many Buddhist Sutras , or teachings, and written many books, recently taking on the topic of Anger for the recent Oxford series on the seven deadly sins. He maintains a podcast on Buddhist topics. And yes, he is Uma's dad.,“Thurman considers Buddhism to be primarily a system of education, a science that guides individuals to live life to its fullest.” — Kansas City Star
Feisal,Abdul,Lose your ego, find your compassion,Chairman of the Cordoba Initiative,www.discoverthenetworks.org/individualProfile.asp?indid=2462,,In 2003, Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf founded the Cordoba Initiative , a non-partisan and international organization that works to provide innovative solutions to conflict between Muslim and Western communities . He also serves as chair of the Initiative, actively promoting and moderating dialogue between individuals and groups. What’s more, this project was not the Imam's first foray into interreligious talks. In 1997, he started the American Society for Muslim Advancement (ASMA), a group that brings American Muslims and non-Muslims together through programs in policy, current affairs and culture. Also, Imam Rauf regularly attends the Council on Foreign Relations and the World Economic Forum (both Davos and Dead Sea) and has written three books on the topic of bringing peace to Islam's relations  Islam A Search for Meaning , Islam A Sacred Law , and What's Right With Islam A New Vision for Muslims and the West . He continues to balance his mission of creating peace with his regular duties as Imam of Masjid al-Farah, a mosque twelve blocks from Ground Zero in New York City, that he has led for 25 years.,
James,Forbes,Compassion at the dinner table,Preacher,www.healingofthenations.com/,,Rev. James Forbes once said, If I don't preach, I won't be well. Luckily, he has always had the opportunity to preach. He was the first African-American to be appointed as Senior Minister of the Riverside Church in Harlem and spent 18 years serving the interdenominational, interracial and international congregation. While at Riverside, be brought the church to play a role in redeveloping the neighborhood and hosted prominent guests, such as the Dalai Lama and Nelson Mandela. The sermons he delivered from the pulpit were often the cause of controversy, and certainly never boring. Today, he continues to deliver his call for spiritual revitalization as the host of The Time is Now on Air America Radio and as president and founder of The Healing of the Nations Foundation . His foundation is, in part, a national ministry and the organization is devoted to encouraging peace, justice, interfaith cooperation and environmental responsibility. Forbes travels extensively, speaking out and spreading this vision for a new future.,
Dayananda,Saraswati,The profound journey of compassion,Vedantic teacher,www.dayananda.org/,,Swami Dayananda Saraswati has been teaching the traditional wisdom of Vedanta for more than four decades , in India and around the world. His success as a teacher is evident in the successes of his students -- over 100 are now swamis themselves, and highly respected as scholars and teachers. Within the Hindu community, he has worked to create harmony, founding the Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha , where heads of different sects can come together learn from each other. In the larger religious community, he has also made huge strides towards cooperation, convening the first World Congress for the Preservation of Religious Diversity . However, Swami Saraswati’s work is not limited to the religious community. He is the founder and an active executive member of the All India Movement (AIM) for Seva . Since 2000, AIM has been bringing medical assistance, education, food and infrastructure to people living in the most remote areas of India. Growing up in a small, rural village himself, the Swami understood the particular challenges to accessing aid faced by those outside of the cities. Today, AIM for Seva estimates that they have been able to help over two million people in need.,
Jackie,Tabick,The balancing act of compassion,Spiritual leader,www.worldfaiths.org/JackieTabick.php,,Rabbi Jackie Tabick is known for being the first female rabbi in the UK and for her remarkable efforts to reach out to distinct faiths. She serves as chair to the World Congress of Faiths , working with patrons such as Rev. Desmond Tutu and the Dali Lama towards deepening religious understanding, respect and co-operation. To this end, Rabbi Tabick also serves as an executive member of the Inter Faith Network , and the Three Faiths Forum , as well acting as patron for the Jewish Council for Racial Equality (JCORE). While reaching across religions, she continues rabbinical duties at the North West Surrey Synagogue and is well known for her engaging and down-to-earth sermons. Her synagogue is part of the Movement of Reform Judaism . Rabbi Tabick has also held the positions of Chair of the Assembly of Rabbis, of the Council of Reform and Liberal Rabbis and Vice president of the Movement for Reform Judaism.,
Newton,Aduaka,The story of Ezra,Filmmaker,www.ondemandkorea.com/ted-newton-aduaka-tells-the-story-of-ezra.html,,Born in Eastern Nigeria, Newton Aduaka and his family moved to Lagos in 1970 at the end of the Biafran War. In 1985 he left for England to study engineering, but discovered cinema. He graduated from the London International Film School in 1990, and in 1997 established Granite Film Works. In 2001, Aduaka's debut feature film, Rage , became the first wholly independently financed film by a black filmmaker in the history of British cinema to be released nationwide. It opened to critical acclaim. He has made many short films as well.,Between 2005 and 2007, he co-wrote, directed and executive-produced Ezra , his first non-independently funded film, for Arte France. The film won the Grand Jury Prize at several film festivals, including FESPACO, Durban, Amiens and Balafon, and was an official selection at Sundance and Cannes.
Zach,Kaplan,Toys and materials from the future,Inventor,www.zachkaplancycles.com/,,,
Rives,,A story of mixed emoticons,Performance poet, multimedia artist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rives,,Part poet, part storyteller, part philosopher, Rives is the co-host of TEDActive as well as a frequent TED speaker. On stage, his poems burst in many directions, exposing multiple layers and unexpected treats childhood memories, grown-up humor, notions of love and lust, of what is lost forever and of what's still out there waiting to unfold. Chimborazo .,A regular on HBO's Def Poetry Jam , Rives also starred alongside model Bar Refaeli in the 2008 Bravo special Ironic Iconic America , touring the United States on a roller coaster ride through the eye-popping panorama of American pop culture. Flat pages can't contain his storytelling, even when paper is his medium. The pop-up books he creates for children unfold with surprise The Christmas Pop-Up Present expands to reveal moving parts, hidden areas and miniature booklets inside.
Jared,Diamond,Why do societies collapse?,Civilization scholar,www.jareddiamond.org/,,In his books Guns, Germs and Steel and Collapse (and the popular PBS and National Geographic documentaries they inspired), big-picture scholar Jared Diamond explores civilizations and why they all seem to fall. Now in his latest book, The World Until Yesterday , Diamond examines small, traditional, tribal societies -- and suggests that modern civilization is only our latest solution to survival. Diamond’s background in evolutionary biology, geography and physiology informs his integrated vision of human history. He posits that success -- and failure -- depends on how well societies adapt to their changing environment.,“Diamond eschews the grand canvas to offer an empathetic portrait of human survival and adaptability” — Publisher’s Weekly, Sept. 17, 2012
Kristen,Ashburn,The face of AIDS in Africa,Photographer,www.kristenashburn.com/,,Kristen Ashburn's poignant photographs bring us into close contact with individuals in the midst of enormous hardship -- giving a human face to struggles that much of the world knows only as statistics and blurbs on the news. She has photographed the people of Iraq a year after the U.S. invasion, Jewish settlers in Gaza, suicide bombers, the penal system in Russia, victims of tuberculosis and the aftermath of the tsunami in Sri Lanka and Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. One of her more recent works, BLOODLINE AIDS and Family , looked at the human impact of AIDS in Africa . Her unflinching photographs from the Middle East, Europe, and Africa have appeared in many publications including The New Yorker , TIME , Newsweek , and Life . She has won numerous awards, including the NPPA 's Best of Photojournalism Award and two World Press Photo prizes.,“Ashburn's photos tell volumes about the reality of AIDS for thousands of mothers, fathers, children and grandparents.” — Dr. Seth Berkley, President, The International AIDS Vaccine Intiative
Mihaly,Csikszentmihalyi,Flow, the secret to happiness,Positive psychologist,cgu.edu/pages/4751.asp,,Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi says creativity is a central source of meaning in our lives. A leading researcher in positive psychology, he has devoted his life to studying what makes people truly happy When we are involved in [creativity], we feel that we are living more fully than during the rest of life. He is the architect of the notion of flow -- the creative moment when a person is completely involved in an activity for its own sake. Csikszentmihalyi teaches psychology and management at Claremont Graduate University, focusing on human strengths such as optimism, motivation and responsibility . He's the director the the Quality of Life Research Center there. He has written numerous books and papers about the search for joy and fulfillment.,“A man obsessed by happiness.” — Richard Flaste, New York Times
Paul,MacCready,Nature vs. humans,Engineer,https//www.avinc.com/about/dr_maccready/,,Through his life, Paul MacCready turned his mind, energy and heart toward his two passions flight and the Earth. His early training as a fighter and glider pilot (glider pilots still use the MacCready speed ring he developed after World War II) led him to explore nontraditional flight and nontraditional energy sources .,In the 1970s, he and his company, AeroVironment, designed and built two record-breaking human-powered planes  the Gossamer Condor , the first human-powered aircraft to complete a one-mile course set by the Kremer Prize , and the Gossamer Albatross , the first to cross the English Channel. The planes' avian names reveal the deep insight that MacCready brought to the challenge -- that large birds, in their wing shape and flying style, possess an elegant secret of flight.
John,Hodgman,Aliens, love — where are they?,Expert,www.johnhodgman.com/,,You may know him only as the PC in Apple's PC vs. Mac smackdown ads, or as the Daily Show with Jon Stewart 's Resident Expert. But John Hodgman has many other claims to fame. He's the author of The Areas of My Expertise , which provides vital and completely fake details on the great lobster conspiracy, hoboes, nine US presidents who had hooks for hands, and how to win a fight, the followup More Information Than You Require , and his newest (and he claims last), That Is All .,He is a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine , host of the Little Gray Book Lectures, a monthly series that has aired on This American Life , and an actual former professional literary agent.
Dean,Ornish,Healing through diet,Physician, author,deanornish.com/,,Dr. Dean Ornish wants you to live longer, and have more fun while you're at it. He's one of the leading voices in the medical community promoting a balanced, holistic approach to health, and proving that it works. The author of Eat More, Weigh Less and several other best-selling books, Ornish is best known for his lifestyle-based approach to fighting heart disease .,His research at the Preventive Medicine Research Institute (the nonprofit he founded) clinically demonstrated that cardiovascular illnesses -- and, most recently prostate cancer -- can be treated and even reversed through diet and exercise . These findings (once thought to be physiologically implausible) have been widely chronicled in the US media, including Newsweek , for which Ornish writes a column. The fifty-something physician, who's received many honors and awards, was chosen by LIFE Magazine as one of the most influential members of his generation. Among his many pursuits, Ornish is now working with food corporations to help stop America's obesity pandemic from spreading around the globe.
Virginia,Postrel,On glamour,Journalist,https//vpostrel.com/,,Virginia Postrel looks at culture through the lens of economics, and vice versa -- looking for the hidden actors and attitudes that drive us to make the choices we do. She writes frequently for the Atlantic and Forbes , and is the author of several books, including The Substance of Style and The Future and Its Enemies .,Her next book will be about glamour , she's exploring the topic on the witty blog Deep Glamour . Her own blog, frequently updated and fascinatingly wide-ranging, is the Dynamist .
Paola,Antonelli,Design and the Elastic Mind,Design curator,www.moma.org › Explore › Inside/Out,,Since she stepped back from practicing architecture in order to focus on writing about design, teaching and curating gallery exhibitions, Italian native Paola Antonelli has become a force to be reckoned with in the design world. Working at the Museum of Modern Art in New York since 1994, she is senior curator of the gallery's Architecture and Design department and, as of 2012, the museum's first ever director of research and development. Antonelli has worked on shows such as  Humble Masterpieces , which celebrated traditionally unheralded design icons such as the paperclip,  Design and the Elastic Mind , considering the relationship of design and technology, and  Talk to Me , which looked at design and the communication of people and objects.,Ever mindful that the majority of visitors to MOMA are attracted by artists such as Picasso and Matisse, Antonelli works to ensure that if they do stumble across a design-related show, they'll be both entertained and enlightened. In 2012, she led a move to acquire 14 video games for the museum's permanent collection.
Garrett,Lisi,An 8-dimensional model of the universe,Physicist,li.si/,,Working from principles of differential geometry, physicist Garrett Lisi is developing a new unified theory that purports to explain all the elementary particles, and gravity, in one elegant model . His theory is based on a mathematical shape called E8. With 248 symmetries, E8 is large, complex and beautiful -- and Lisi believes the relationships of its symmetries correspond to known particles and forces, including gravity. His work, explained in his paper  An Exceptionally Simple Theory of Everything , and in an ongoing discussion on FQXi , is still on science's speculative fringe. But some physicists believe he could be pointing the way toward a truly unified theory.,“This is an 'all or nothing' kind of theory -- meaning it's going to end up agreeing with and predicting damn near everything, or it's wrong. At this stage of development, it could go either way.” — Garrett Lisi on physicsforums.comJames,Burchfield,Playing invisible turntables,Human beatbox,https//www.ted.com/speakers/james_burchfield,,Outside of the hip-hop world, the art of human beatboxing was mostly overlooked until the droves came to YouTube. For that trend -- from obscure fad to open mic-night fixture to full-scale Internet meme -- some credit is due to James Burchfield. Known by the handle AudioPoet, the young artist was a main figure in Seattle beatboxing competitions and open-mics in the early 2000s, and then on larger stages like San Francisco's Palace of Fine Arts Theatre. For a musician whose goal is enlightenment of the mind, Burchfield has a fairly concrete tack studying the mathematical formulas that are the foundation of music. He brings that knowledge -- and an instinct for dance-friendly grooves that simulate seemingly impossible-to-mimic machine sounds -- onto every stage.,“A mind-blowingly inventive and agile human beatbox.” — The Stranger
Steven,Johnson,The Web as a city,Writer,www.stevenberlinjohnson.com,,A dynamic writer and speaker, Johnson crafts captivating theories that draw on a dizzying array of disciplines, without ever leaving his audience behind. Author Kurt Anderson described Johnson's book Emergence as thoughtful and lucid and charming and staggeringly smart. The same could be said for Johnson himself. His big-brained, multi-disciplinary theories make him one of his generation's more intriguing thinkers. His books take the reader on a journey -- following the twists and turns his own mind makes as he connects seemingly disparate ideas ants and cities, interface design and Victorian novels.,Johnson's breakout 2005 title, Everything Bad Is Good for You , took the provocative stance that our fear and loathing of popular culture is misplaced, video games and TV shows, he argues, are actually making us smarter. His appearances on The Daily Show and Charlie Rose cemented his reputation as a cogent thinker who could also pull more than his share of laughs. His most recent work, The Ghost Map , goes in another direction entirely It tells the story of a cholera outbreak in 1854 London, from the perspective of the city residents, the doctors chasing the disease, and the pathogen itself. The book shows how the epidemic brought about profound changes in science, cities and modern society. His upcoming work, Where Good Ideas Come From The Natural History of Innovation , tells the fascinating stories of great ideas and great thinkers across disciplines.
Doris,Kearns,Lessons from past presidents,Historian, DorisKearnsGoodwin.com,,Doris Kearns Goodwin is one of the great popularizers of presidential history. Her books on Lyndon Johnson, the Kennedys, and the wartime Roosevelts all became best-sellers, thanks to her ability to tell a truly human story around these larger-than-life men and women .,Her latest book, Team of Rivals , follows Abraham Lincoln, a brilliant young country lawyer, as he rises to the US Presidency and draws his former political opponents into his circle of advisors . (The book is the basis for Steven Spielberg's next film .)
David,Perry,Are games better than life?,Game designer,GameInvestors.com,,David Perry is the mind behind such famed video games as Earthworm Jim (in which a bionic suit-clad worm saves the galaxy), Messiah (in which a rogue cherub hijacks creatures' bodies to defeat sin), and best-selling game adaptations of movies like Disney's Aladdin , Terminator and The Matrix . He has designed tie-ins for international brands such as 7-Up and McDonald's, and now works on a group of massively multiplayer online titles for Acclaim. A programmer since childhood and a lifelong gamer, Perry has a special understanding of the mechanics that make games fresh, fun, emotionally involving -- and addictive . A sense of humor and a visionary outlook make him a sought-after adviser in the industry, and he also heads several websites on the art and business of game development, including GameConsultants.com, GameInvestors.com and the Game Industry Map.,David Perry founded the game software developer Gaikai in 2008 and now works for Sony, which acquired Gaikai and is leading the development of the Sony PlayStation 4.
James,Nachtwey,Moving photos of extreme drug-resistant TB,Photojournalist,jamesnachtwey.com,,For the past three decades, James Nachtwey has devoted himself to documenting wars, conflicts and critical social issues, working in El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Lebanon, the West Bank and Gaza, Israel, Indonesia, Thailand, India, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, the Philippines, South Korea, Somalia, Sudan, Rwanda, South Africa, Russia, Bosnia, Chechnya, Kosovo, Romania, Brazil and the United States. Nachtwey has been a contract photographer with Time since 1984. However, when certain stories he wanted to cover -- such as Romanian orphanages and famine in Somalia -- garnered no interest from magazines, he self-financed trips there. He is known for getting up close to his subjects, or as he says, in the same intimate space that the subjects inhabit, and he passes that sense of closeness on to the viewer. In putting himself in the middle of conflict, his intention is to record the truth, to document the struggles of humanity, and with this, to wake people up and stir them to action.,“Reticent about discussing his own life beyond the basic facts, he's clearly one of those rare characters who focus singularly on their work with a missionary-like sense of purpose.” — Salon.comLiz,Diller,The Blur Building and other tech-empowered architecture,Designer,www.dsrny.com,,Liz Diller's firm, Diller Scofidio & Renfro , might just be the first post-wall architects. From a mid-lake rotunda made of fog to a gallery that destroys itself with a robotic drill, her brainy takes on the essence of buildings are mind-bending and rebellious. DS+R partakes of criticism that goes past academic papers and into real structures -- buildings and art installations that seem to tease the squareness of their neighbors . DS+R was the first architecture firm to receive a MacArthur genius grant -- and it also won an Obie for Jet Lag , a wildly creative piece of multimedia off-Broadway theater. A reputation for rampant repurposing of materials and tricksy tinkering with space -- on stage, on paper, on the waterfront -- have made DS+R a sought-after firm, winning accounts from the Juilliard School, Alice Tully Hall and the School of American Ballet, as part of the Lincoln Center overhaul, at Brown University, and on New York's revamp of Governer's Island. Their Institute for Comtemporary Art has opened up a new piece of Boston's waterfront, creating an elegant space that embraces the water.,
Noah,Feldman,Politics and religion are technologies,Scholar of Islam and law,hls.harvard.edu/faculty/directory/10257/Feldman,,As Islam becomes a more powerful cultural force throughout the world, Noah Feldman studies the ways that Islamic law intersects with Western-style democracy . A law professor at Harvard and a contributing editor at the New York Times Magazine , Feldman recently wrote a much-discussed think piece about how Shariah law might be made to work within the British court system. His nuanced argument lays out the rigorous roots of Shariah justice (yes, it is more than the Western caricature of stoning women and cutting off thieving hands), and his conclusions have drawn admiration and criticism. But he's never less than fearlessly honest -- as in another piece for the Times Magazine , where he exposes a troubling strain of anti-Muslim sentiment, both outspoken and implied, in modern Europe.,Feldman is an adjunct fellow at the nonpartisan Council on Foreign Relations . His most recent book is The Fall and Rise of the Islamic State .
Stefan,Sagmeister,Designing with slogans,Graphic designer,www.sagmeisterwalsh.com/,,Stefan Sagmeister is no mere commercial gun for hire. Sure, he's created eye-catching graphics for clients including the Rolling Stones and Lou Reed, but he pours his heart and soul into every piece of work. His design work is at once timeless and of the moment, and his painstaking attention to the smallest details creates work that offers something new every time you look at it. While a sense of humor invariably surfaces in his designs, Sagmeister is nonetheless very serious about his work, his intimate approach and sincere thoughtfulness elevate his desig n. A genuine maverick, Sagmeister achieved notoriety in the 1990s as the designer who self-harmed in the name of craft He created a poster advertising a speaking engagement by carving the salient details onto his torso.,“Sagmeister's CD package designs are what poetry is to prose distilled, intense, cunning, evocative and utterly complete. His intentions have set a new standard.” — I.D. Magazine
Rodney,Brooks,Robots will invade our lives,Roboticist,rethinkrobotics.com,,MIT professor Rodney Brooks studies and engineers robot intelligence, looking for the holy grail of robotics the AGI, or artificial general intelligence. For decades, we've been building robots to do highly specific tasks -- welding, riveting, delivering interoffice mail -- but what we all want, really, is a robot that can figure things out on its own, the way we humans do.,Brooks realized that a top-down approach -- just building the biggest brain possible and teaching it everything we could think of -- would never work. What would work is a robot who learns like we do, by trial and error, and with many separate parts that learn separate jobs. The thesis of his work which was captured in Fast, Cheap and Out of Control , went on to become the title of the great Errol Morris documentary.
Steven,Pinker,Human nature and the blank slate,Linguist, stevenpinker.com,,Steven Pinker's books have been like bombs tossed into the eternal nature-versus-nurture debate. Pinker asserts that not only are human minds predisposed to certain kinds of learning, such as language, but that from birth our minds -- the patterns in which our brain cells fire -- predispose us each to think and behave differently.,His deep studies of language have led him to insights into the way that humans form thoughts and engage our world. He argues that humans have evolved to share a faculty for language, the same way a spider evolved to spin a web. We aren't born with “blank slates” to be shaped entirely by our parents and environment, he argues in books including The Language Instinct , How the Mind Works , and The Blank Slate The Modern Denial of Human Nature .
Caleb,Chung,Playtime with Pleo, your robotic dinosaur friend,Toy designer,https//poptech.org/people/caleb_chung,,Caleb Chung came to toy inventing with the standard background a career as a mime, comedian and stunt man. A prolific creator of toys from the get-go (he invented some classic McDonald's Happy Meal giveaways), he became a toy-design rockstar in the 1990s with the Furby . Essentially a talking mogwai, the Furby spoke its own language, could communicate with other Furbys, and connected with its owner in a way that sold tens of millions of the dolls. (Versions of the Furby are still in production worldwide -- and are a magnet for tinkerers .) Retiring to Idaho after this roaring success, Chung started tinkering with another design that uses sophisticated robotics to evoke a deep emotional bond. The Pleo is the result, a supercute baby dinosaur that begins its emotional and intellectual development when you pull it out of the box . After a few deadline problems (centered around the challenge of fitting 37 sensors, 14 motors and 7 microcontrollers inside a realistic dinosaur skin), Chung's company Ugobe (now Pleoworld) shipped Pleo for Christmas 2007.,“This might just be the sort of toy that raises the bar for what robotics can and should do in a consumer marketplace.” — Ethan Zuckerman, My Heart's in Accra
Laura,Trice,Remember to say thank you,Counselor, coach and baker,www.drlauramd.com/,,Dr. Laura Trice is a therapist and coach, devoted to practices that help people find fulfillment. She's created a therapeutic program called Writing in Recovery that uses creative skills such as journaling and music to help people develop better self-awareness and set goals. She's taught this program at such well-known clinics as Betty Ford and Promises. She's the author of the book How to Work Any 12-Step Program . In her other life, she is the head of Laura's Wholesome Junk Food, making healthy cookies and brownies.,“Doing little things will help doing the big things in the future.” — a Writing in Recovery client
Philip,Zimbardo,The psychology of evil,Psychologist,EverydayHeroism.org,,Philip Zimbardo knows what evil looks like. After serving as an expert witness during the Abu Ghraib trials, he wrote The Lucifer Effect Understanding How Good People Turn Evil . From Nazi comic books to the tactics of used-car salesmen, he explores a wealth of sources in trying to explain the psychology of evil .,A past president of the American Psychological Association and a professor emeritus at Stanford, Zimbardo retired in 2008 from lecturing, after 50 years of teaching his legendary introductory course in psychology . In addition to his work on evil and heroism, Zimbardo recently published The Time Paradox , exploring different cultural and personal perspectives on time. Still well-known for his controversial Stanford Prison Experiment, Zimbardo in his new research looks at the psychology of heroism . He asks, What pushes some people to become perpetrators of evil, while others act heroically on behalf of those in need?
Marvin,Minsky,Health and the human mind,AI pioneer,www.media.mit.edu/~minsky,,Marvin Minsky is the superstar-elder of artificial intelligence, one of the most productive and important cognitive scientists of the century, and the leading proponent of the Society of Mind theory. Articulated in his 1985 book of the same name, Minsky's theory says intelligence is not born of any single mechanism, but from the interaction of many independent agents . The book's sequel, The Emotion Machine (2006), says similar activity also accounts for feelings, goals, emotions and conscious thoughts.,Minsky also pioneered advances in mathematics, computational linguistics, optics, robotics and telepresence . He built SNARC, the first neural network simulator, some of the first visual scanners, and the first LOGO turtle. From his headquarters at MIT's Media Lab and the AI Lab (which he helped found), he continues to work on, as he says, imparting to machines the human capacity for commonsense reasoning.
David,S.,How to pitch to a VC,Angel Investor,www.rose.vc/,,David S. Rose is a split-screen legend to the world's entrepreneurs. He's been both a mentor to hundreds of startup hopefuls and, sometimes—to the talented and fortunate—a funder. His rapid-fire seminars on pitching to venture capitalists are celebrated and sought-after. He's helped invest many millions of dollars in startups through New York Angels , meanwhile raising tens of millions for his own companies. His New York Times bestselling book Angel Investing has become the definitive how-to guide for anyone considering making or receiving angel investments. And as Associate Founder—and Founding Track Chair for Finance, Entrepreneurship & Economics—of Singularity University , he is one of the world's leading theorists on the future of business in a world of exponential technology growth. Fusing these interests under Rose Tech Ventures , Rose's mission is to give future movers-and-shakers support and encouragement. Gust , the international financing platform that he founded, connects hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs to tens of thousands of angel investors in over 100 countries, and powers many of the world's major startup ecosystems. Gust was named the world's most innovative financial technology company by SWIFT, and has won the CODiE Award for Best Collaboration Solution for three years in a row. David's new technology incubator is a greenhouse to nurture the seedlings of future entrepreneurial superstars.,“David is a master at turning presentations from “before” to “after.” I wish more of the start-ups I hear making presentations used his services!” — Esther Dyson
Eve,Ensler,What security means to me,Playwright, activist,www.eveensler.org/,,Inspired by intimate conversations with friends, Eve Ensler wrote The Vagina Monologues . The play recounts tender, funny, gripping and horrifying stories she gathered from hundreds of women about their bodies, their sexual experiences, and yes, their vaginas. Since its first staging in 1996, it has been translated into more than 45 languages, performed in more than 120 countries and re-created as an HBO film. The Vagina Monologues ' success allowed Ensler to create V-Day , a global activist movement to end violence against women and girls, which has so far raised $85 million to prevent violence and protect abused women. In February 2011, Ensler received the Isabelle Stephenson Tony Award for her philanthropic work. Ensler has also drawn praise for The Good Body , a play that cuts to women's obsession with their appearance, and her film What I Want My Words to Do to You , which portrays a writing group she leads at a correctional facility for women. Today, she continues to find new projects and push the envelope. Her latest play, I Am an Emotional Creature The Secret Life of Girls Around the World , hit the New York Times bestseller list and just wrapped a workshop production in Johannesburg -- nest stop is Paris and then Berkeley in June 2012.,“Eve is bringing women back, she's giving us our souls back.” — Glenn Close
Jonathan,Haidt,The moral roots of liberals and conservatives,Social psychologist,AsteroidsClub.org,,Haidt is a social psychologist whose research on morality across cultures led up to his much-quoted 2008 TEDTalk on the psychological roots of the American culture war. He asks, Can't we all disagree more constructively? In September 2009, Jonathan Haidt spoke to the TED Blog about the moral psychology behind the healthcare debate in the United States. He's also active in the study of positive psychology and human flourishing.,At TED2012 he explored the intersection of his work on morality with his work on happiness to talk about “hive psychology” – the ability that humans have to lose themselves in groups pursuing larger projects, almost like bees in a hive. This hivish ability Is crucial, he argues, for understanding the origins of morality, politics, and religion. These are ideas that Haidt develops at greater length in his new book, The Righteous Mind Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion . Learn more about his drive for a more productive and civil politics on his website CivilPolitics.org . And take an eye-opening quiz about your own morals at YourMorals.org .
Ann,Cooper,What's wrong with school lunches,Lunch lady,www.chefannfoundation.org/,,Ann Cooper has a frontline view of the daily battle to keep kids healthy -- and of the enemy, the processed-foods industries that, it sometimes seems, want to wrap every single thing that children eat in a fried coating and then a plastic bag. As the director of nutrition services for the Berkeley (California) Unified School District, she's an outspoken activist for serving fresh, sustainable food to kids . Her lively website, ChefAnn.com , rounds up recipes, links, and resources for food activism.,Cooper's influential program in Berkeley involves kids in every stage of the food they eat , from growing to disposing of it. And along the way, eating some delicious cafeteria lunches. She's also recently become one of the most enterprising members of Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution, launching TheLunchBox.org to give schools the resources and support they need to transform their menus and provide balanced, healthy meals. In line with that effort, she is partnering with Whole Foods on the Great American Salad Project (GASP) , which will create fresh salad bars in over 300 schools around the U.S.
Keith,Bellows,The camel's hump,Traveler,news.nationalgeographic.com/.../150830-ke...,,The editor of National Geographic Traveler , Keith Bellows steps away from the human aspects of travel for a moment to present one of his other fascinations animal design. And not just the beautiful, photogenic aspects of that design either. After a harrowing breakdown in the Sahara with one water bottle to share among four people, Bellows was forced to make a rendezvous via camel ride, and became certain that this animal was, in addition to being a mean son-of-a-bitch, the most perfectly designed creature on Earth. Convinced by the organizers that bringing a live camel to the TED Conference was not a wise idea , Bellows did the next best thing, and drafted a National Geographic film crew to go to the Washington Zoo. They returned with a film of Suki, a 2,000-pound creature in the midst of rut, with shocking capabilities lurking in his spinning tail and rear-facing genitalia, all gleefully outlined in the film. But though this creature may seem unsavory, he's perfectly adapted to survival in the harshest environments around, and critical to the survival of the nomads that call the desert home.,
Carmen,Agra,Once upon a time, my mother ...,Storyteller,carmenagradeedy.com/,,Carmen Agra Deedy is a storyteller and children's-book author. Born in Cuba, she moved to the United States as a child, and her childhood and family provide a rich vein of material for her vividly told stories.,She's a contributor to National Public Radio and has won numerous awards for her writing.
David,Gallo,Life in the deep oceans,Oceanographer,davidgallo.com/,,David Gallo works to push the bounds of oceanic discovery. Active in undersea exploration (sometimes in partnership with legendary Titanic -hunter Robert Ballard), he was one of the first oceanographers to use a combination of manned submersibles and robots to map the ocean world with unprecedented clarity and detail. He was a co-expedition leader during an exploration of the RMS Titanic and the German battleship Bismarck, using Russian Mir subs.,On behalf of the Woods Hole labs, he appears around the country speaking on ocean and water issues. Most recently he co-led an expedition to create the first detailed and comprehensive map of the RMS Titanic and he co-led the successful international effort to locate the wreck site of Air France flight 447. He is involved in planning an international Antarctic expedition to locate and document the wreckage of Ernest Shackleton’s ship, HMS Endurance.
Brewster,Kahle,A free digital library,Digital librarian,brewster.kahle.org/,,Brewster Kahle's stated goal is Universal access to all knowledge, and his catalog of inventions and institutions created for this purpose read like a Web's Greatest Hits list. In 1982 he helped start Thinking Machines, a supercomputer company specializing in text searching, and would go on to invent the Internet's first publishing and distributed search system, WAIS , whose customers included the New York Times and the United States Senate. But most notably, perhaps, Kahle is founder and director of the Internet Archive, a free service which steadfastly archives World Wide Web documents , even as they are plowed over by breakneck trends in commerce, culture and politics. (On his Wayback Machine, you can view pages as they appeared in web antiquity -- say, Yahoo! in 1996.) As a member of the Board of Directors of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, he works to keep such information free and reachable. Kahle is a key supporter of the Open Content Alliance and has been elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He and his wife operate a nonprofit organization, the Kahle/Austin Foundation, which funds the Internet Archive.,“Brewster is one of those guys who has been successful in spite of the fact that he has never been after that kind of success. He's been pushing protocols for the benefit of humanity.” — Kip Parent, on Edge.org
Irwin,Redlener,How to survive a nuclear attack,Physician, disaster-preparedness activist,topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/.../irwin_redlener/,,After 9/11, Irwin Redlener emerged as a powerful voice in disaster medicine -- the discipline of medical care following natural and human-made catastrophes. He was a leading face of the relief effort after hurricanes Katrina and Rita , and is the author of Americans at Risk Why We Are Not Prepared for Megadisasters and What We Can Do Now . He's the associate dean, professor of Clinical Public Health and director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health .,His parallel passion is addressing the American disaster that happens every day millions of kids living without proper health care . He and Paul Simon are the co-founders of the Children's Health Fund , which raises money and awareness toward health care for homeless, neglected and poor children.
Jane,Goodall,How humans and animals can live together,Primatologist, environmentalist,www.janegoodall.org/,,Jane Goodall hasn't exactly found the missing link, but she's come closer than just about anyone else on Earth. Her extensive research into the behavior of chimpanzees, which started in Africa in the 1960s and continues today, fundamentally altered scientific thinking about the relationship between humans and other mammals .,Goodall, who founded a research institute in her name in 1977, is an internationally recognized authority on the primate world. She's written books for adults and children, contributed to documentaries, and serves as a National Geographic explorer-in-residence, a United Nations peace messenger, and the president of Advocates for Animals . For her efforts to observe and preserve all species, Goodall has received honors and accolades from governments, nonprofits, universities, and professional organizations, including a medal from UNESCO and the French Legion of Honor in 2006.
Jonathan,Drori,What we think we know,Educator,https//www.ted.com/speakers/jonathan_drori,,Jonathan Drori has dedicated his career to media and learning. As the Head of Commissioning for BBC Online, he led the effort to create bbc.co.uk, the online face of the BBC (an effort he recalls fondly ). He came to the web from the TV side of the BBC, where as an editor and producer he headed up dozens of television series on science, education and the arts.,After almost two decades at the BBC, he's now a director at Changing Media Ltd., a media and education consultancy, and is a visiting professor at University of Bristol, where he studies educational media and misperceptions in science . He continues to executive produce the occasional TV series, including 2004's award-winning The DNA Story and 2009's Great Sperm Race. He is on the boards of the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Woodland Trust.
Peter,Hirshberg,The web is more than better TV,Entrepreneur, marketer,hirshberg.com/,,The Internet would change everything it's a truism now, but for some, this took years to sink in. Not for Peter Hirshberg. A marketing specialist at the epicenter of emerging technology, he has spent a quarter of a century charting the reverberations of all things high tech in culture and in business. (It's big business, too.) Hirshberg first helped bring Apple into the online services arena., then acted as strategic adviser to Microsoft, AOL and NBC. Along the way, he was CEO of Gloss.com and Elemental Software. He's built a deep understanding of the fundamentals of content production and consumption -- and how they've changed, both online and off. Hirshberg is a trustee of the Computer History Museum and a Henry Crown Fellow of the Aspen Institute. He serves on the advisory board of Technorati and keeps up a lively blog on disruptive culture.,
Peter,Diamandis,Our next giant leap,Space activist,www.diamandis.com/,,Watch the live onstage debate with Paul Gilding that followed Peter Diamandis' 2012 TEDTalk >>,Peter Diamandis is the founder and chair of the X Prize Foundation , a nonprofit whose mission is simply to bring about radical breakthroughs for the benefit of humanity. By offering a big cash prize for a specific accomplishment, the X Prize stimulates competition and excitement around some of the planet's most important goals. Diamandis is also co-founder and chairman of Singularity University which runs Exponential Technologies Executive and Graduate Student Programs.
Paul,Rothemund,DNA folding, in detail,DNA origamist,www.dna.caltech.edu/~pwkr/,,Paul Rothemund won a MacArthur grant this year for a fairly mystifying study area folding DNA. It brings up the question Why fold DNA? The answer is -- because the power to manipulate DNA in this way could change the way we make things at a very basic level.,Rothemund's work combines the study of self-assembly (watch the TEDTalks from Neil Gershenfeld and Saul Griffith for more on this) with the research being done in DNA nanotechnology -- and points the way toward self-assembling devices at microscale, making computer memory, for instance, smaller, faster and maybe even cheaper.
Einstein,the,A talking, squawking parrot,African grey parrot,www.einsteinparrot.com/,,Einstein, the African grey parrot, squawked to fame after a winning performance on the Animal Planet game show Pet Star . She has a vocabulary of more than 200 words and sounds, she can perform nearly half on a cue from her trainer, Stephanie White. She can also impersonate a spaceship, a monkey and even a skunk.,Einstein is part of the Knoxville Zoo' s outreach program, helping educate thousands of visitors about the natural world every year
Ory,Okolloh,How I became an activist,Blogger and activist,www.kenyanpundit.com/about/,,Ory Okolloh is a blogger and open-government activist. She runs Mzalendo , a pioneering civic website that tracks the performance of Kenya's Parliament and its Parliamentarians. With a vote tracker, articles and opinion pieces, the site connects Kenyans to their leaders and opens the lid on this powerful and once-secretive body. (This is a Parliament that finally agreed to have its procedings televised in August 2008 .),Okolloh's own blog is called Kenyan Pundit , and it tracks her work with Mzalendo and her other efforts as part of the rebuilding of Kenya, following the post-election violence in late 2007 (she collected a powerful series of diaries of the violence , dozens of essays from Kenyans and others -- well worth a read).
Sugata,Mitra,Kids can teach themselves,Education researcher, sugatam.blogspot.com,,Educational researcher Dr. Sugata Mitra’s “ Hole in the Wall ” experiments have shown that, in the absence of supervision or formal teaching, children can teach themselves and each other, if they’re motivated by curiosity and peer interest. In 1999, Mitra and his colleagues dug a hole in a wall bordering an urban slum in New Delhi, installed an Internet-connected PC, and left it there (with a hidden camera filming the area). What they saw was kids from the slum playing around with the computer and in the process learning how to use it and how to go online, and then teaching each other. The Hole in the Wall project demonstrates that, even in the absence of any direct input from a teacher, an environment that stimulates curiosity can cause learning through self-instruction and peer-shared knowledge. Mitra, who's now a professor of educational technology at Newcastle University (UK) , calls it minimally invasive education.,At TED2013, Sugata Mitra made a bold TED Prize wish Help me build a place where children can explore and learn on their own -- and teach one another -- using resouces from the worldwide cloud.
John,Q.,Great piano performances, recreated,Musician and inventor,johnq.org/,,Glenn Gould, Thelonious Monk, Art Tatum legends of live piano performance lost to time. But John Q. Walker asks us to imagine hearing those great, departed musicians play again today , just as they would in person. Such is the promise of Walker's company, Zenph Studios, which builds technology to re-create live music performances. Piano tracks are converted into precise keystrokes and pedal motions -- then played back on computer-controlled grand pianos.,Before founding Zenph in 2002, Walker was a leading developer of VoIP , and was influential in the creation of the IEEE 802 local-area network (LAN) and the 802.11 wireless LAN (“Wi-Fi”) standards. He is himself a devoted pianist.
Nellie,McKay,The Dog Song,Singer/songwriter,www.nelliemckay.com/,,Playful, quirky, hilarious, endearing not attributes of your typical political agitator. But singer-songwriter-producer-activist Nellie McKay merits the description. Her music is whimsical, colorful, catchy and as engaging as it is restless. Toying with antique genres and yet undeniably contemporary, it flirts with multiple styles of delivery while maintaining a sharp social conscience.,For these and other eccentricities, McKay has gained a devoted fan following. On stage and off, she's an outspoken advocate of animal rights , a friend and ally to any arch political quip and -- lucky for us -- artistically uncompromising. After cutting two major-label records, her own indie label, Hungry Mouse, produced her latest, Obligatory Villagers .
Ian,Dunbar,Dog-friendly dog training,Animal behaviorist,www.siriuspup.com › About,,We may call dogs man's best friend, but according to Dr. Ian Dunbar, humans often fail to reciprocate. Dunbar's decades of research on hierarchical social behavior and aggression in domestic animals truly give him a dog's-eye view of human beings' incomprehensible and spontaneous -- if involuntary -- cruelties. Dunbar says we might break our unseemly, unflattering habits and usher in an era of dog-friendly dog training by coming to understand why dogs do what they do -- Is Fido misbehaving, or just being a dog? -- and the repercussions of our actions toward them. (We might foster better relationships with our fellow humans, too.) His Sirius Dog Training company focuses on training puppies to be playful, yet well-behaved. His second organization, Animalin, promotes games for dogs and puppies at an international level.,Dunbar has written numerous books, including How to Teach a New Dog Old Tricks and The Good Little Dog Book . He has also hosted several award-winning videotapes on puppy and dog training.
Lennart,Green,Close-up card magic with a twist,Close-up card magician,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lennart_Green,,Swedish card trick maestro Lennart Green has been baffling audiences for years with card tricks that seem barely under control . In 1991 he won the grand prize in close-up card magic from the International Federation of Magic Societies (FISM), sometimes called the Olympics of magic. He might've won it in 1985 also, except his act of seemingly impossible cardplay fooled even the judges. With his DVD series Green Magic , Green not only showcases his stunning routines, but divulges many of his most closely guarded secrets , including his famous Snap Deal (where cards seem to vanish without a trace as they are dealt). His talents have carried his trickery around the world, including an appearance on NBC's The World's Greatest Magic .,“One cardman who delivered a terrific performance in the contest was Lennart Green, a Swedish physician with an utterly original repertoire. He did not place, because some of the judges, completely fooled by his bizarre methods, jumped to the incorrect conclusion that the spectators who had shuffled the cards during his routine were actually stooges.” — fism.org
David,Griffin,How photography connects us,Director of photography, National Geographic,www.davidgriffin.com/,,David Griffin has one of the world's true dream jobs He's the director of photography for National Geographic magazine. He works with photo editors and photographers to set the visual direction of the magazine -- which in turn raises the bar for photographers around the world .,Griffin offers an intriguing look into the magazine's creative process on his blog, Editor's Pick , where he talks about how the magazine uses its extraordinary photos to tell compelling stories.
Spencer,Wells,A family tree for humanity,Genographer,www.nationalgeographic.com/.../spencer-we..,,By analyzing DNA from people in all regions of the world, Spencer Wells has concluded that all humans alive today are descended from a single man who lived in Africa around 60,000 to 90,000 years ago. Now, Wells is working on the follow-up question How did this man, sometimes called Ychromosomal Adam, become the multicultural, globe-spanning body of life known as humanity?,Wells was recently named project director of the National Geographic Society's multiyear Genographic Project, which uses DNA samples to trace human migration out of Africa. In his 2002 book The Journey of Man A Genetic Odyssey , he shows how genetic data can trace human migrations over the past 50,000 years , as our ancestors wandered out of Africa to fill up the continents of the globe.
Patricia,Burchat,Shedding light on dark matter,Particle physicist,https//physics.stanford.edu/node/114,,Patricia Burchat studies the universe's most basic ingredients -- the mysterious dark energy and dark matter that are massively more abundant than the visible stars and galaxies . She is one of the founders of the BaBar Collaboration at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a project that's hoping to answer the question, If there are as many anti-particles as there are particles, why can't we see all these anti-particles?,She's a member of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope project, which will allow scientists to monitor exploding supernovae and determine how fast the universe is expanding -- and map how mass is distributed throughout the universe. She's also part of Fermilab Experiment E791 , studying the production and decay of charmed particles. Burchat received a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2005.
Bruno,Bowden,Blindfold origami and cello,Cellist,www.brunobowden.com/,,Rufus Cappadocia uses his cello to play the music he hears around the world, filtered through the music in his head. A dedicated musicologist, he has played and studied deeply in many genres , from Haitian voodoo music to Indian ghazal, from Celtic to Balkan. The rich, jazz-inflected sound he pulls from his instrument (which he started playing at age 3) is a passionate through-line in all his work.,Cappadocia writes, records, and plays live, both solo and in several groups -- including Bethany & Rufus (Bethany is Bethany Yarrow, the daughter of Peter Yarrow of Peter, Paul & Mary) and the Vodou Jazz Ensemble .
Robert,Lang,The math and magic of origami,Origamist,www.langorigami.com/,,Origami, as Robert Lang describes it, is simple You take a creature, you combine it with a square, and you get an origami figure. But Lang's own description belies the technicality of his art, indeed, his creations inspire awe by sheer force of their intricacy . His repertoire includes a snake with one thousand scales, a two-foot-tall allosaurus skeleton, and a perfect replica of a Black Forest cuckoo clock. Each work is the result of software (which Lang himself pioneered) that manipulates thousands of mathematical calculations in the production of a folding map of a single creature.,The marriage of mathematics and origami harkens back to Lang's own childhood. As a first-grader, Lang proved far too clever for elementary mathematics and quickly became bored, prompting his teacher to give him a book on origami. His acuity for mathematics would lead him to become a physicist at the California Institute of Technology, and the owner of nearly fifty patents on lasers and optoelectronics. Now a professional origami master, Lang practices his craft as both artist and engineer , one day folding the smallest of insects and the next the largest of space-bound telescope lenses.
Kwabena,Boahen,A computer that works like the brain,Bioengineer,https//web.stanford.edu/group/.../boahen.html,,Kwabena Boahen is the principal investigator at the Brains in Silicon lab at Stanford. He writes of himself,Being a scientist at heart, I want to understand how cognition arises from neuronal properties. Being an engineer by training, I am using silicon integrated circuits to emulate the way neurons compute , linking the seemingly disparate fields of electronics and computer science with neurobiology and medicine.
Kevin,Kelly,The next 5,000 days of the web,Digital visionary,kk.org/,,Perhaps there is no one better to contemplate the meaning of cultural change -- bad? good? too slow? too bold? -- than Kevin Kelly, whose life story reads like a treatise on the value of technology . Whether by renouncing all material things save his bicycle (which he then rode 3,000 miles), founding an organization (the All-Species Foundation) to catalog all life on earth, or by touting new gadgets in WIRED, Kelly hasn't stopped exploring the phenomena of technical and biological creation. In articles for the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, among others, he has celebrated scientific breakthroughs, and at the Long Now Foundation , where he serves on the board, he champions projects that look 10,000 years into the future. One such project is the Rosetta Project, which will catalogue more than 1,000 languages on a disks to be placed nearby the 10,000 Year Clock. Kelly's newest book What Technology Wants asks what appears to be his life's core question How should I think about new technology when it comes along?,Kelly discusses the 7th Kingdom at length in the July 18, 2007, edition of Edge.org.
Reed,Kroloff,A tour of modern architecture,Architecture critic,www.joneskroloff.com/principals.html,,Already known throughout the architecture community for his award-winning tenure as editor-in-chief of Architecture magazine, Reed Kroloff came to the attention of the country at large after Hurricane Katrina. As Dean of Architecture at Tulane University, he was responsible for bringing back 97% of the school's student body and 100% of its faculty after the disaster. In 2005, New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin appointed Kroloff to the Bring New Orleans Back Commission to assist in the reconstruction of the city, and to help avoid creating, in Kroloff's words, a bad cartoon version of what New Orleans actually is.,His searing 2006 essay Black Like Me lays out the frustrations of a citizen of post-Katrina New Orleans --  the slow-burning frustration of being at the table but not invited to sit down . It's typical of his desire to look past simple aesthetics to the emotional heart of any building project.
Jonathan,Harris,The web as art,Artist, storyteller, Internet anthropologist,thewhalehunt.org/,,Brooklyn-based artist Jonathan Harris ' work celebrates the world's diversity even as it illustrates the universal concerns of its occupants. His computer programs scour the Internet for unfiltered content , which his beautiful interfaces then organize to create coherence from the chaos. His projects are both intensely personal (the  We Feel Fine  project, made with Sep Kanvar , which scans the world's blogs to collect snapshots of the writers' feelings) and entirely global (the new  Universe , which turns current events into constellations of words ). But their effect is the same -- to show off a world that resonates with shared emotions, concerns, problems, triumphs and troubles .,“Jonathan Harris [is] a New York artist and storyteller working primarily on the Internet. His work involves the exploration and understanding of humans, on a global scale, through the artifacts they leave behind on the Web.” — Edge.org
Louise,Leakey,A dig for humanity's origins,Paleoanthropologist,www.leakey.com/bios/sample-page,,Louise Leakey is the third generation of her family to dig for humanity's past in East Africa. In 2001, Leakey and her mother, Meave, found a previously unknown hominid, the 3.5-million-year-old Kenyanthropus platyops , at Lake Turkana -- the same region where her father, Richard, discovered the Turkana Boy fossil, and near Tanzania's Olduvai Gorge, where her grandparents, Louise and Mary Leakey, discovered the bones of Homo habilis .,In August 2007 Louise and Meave, both National Geographic Explorers-in-Residence , dug up new H. habilis bones that may rewrite humanity's evolutionary timeline . We imagine that we evolved from apes in an orderly progression from ape to hominid to human, but the Leakeys' find suggests that different species of pre-humans actually lived side by side at the same time for almost half a million years.
Chris,Abani,On humanity,Novelist, poet,www.chrisabani.com/,,Chris Abani's first novel, published when he was 16, was Masters of the Board , a political thriller about a foiled Nigerian coup. The story was convincing enough that the Nigerian government threw him in jail for inciting a coincidentally timed real-life coup. Imprisoned and tortured twice more, he channeled the experience into searing poetry .,Abani's best-selling 2004 novel GraceLand is a searing and funny tale of a young Nigerian boy, an Elvis impersonator who moves through the wide, wild world of Lagos, slipping between pop and traditional cultures, art and crime. It's a perennial book-club pick, a story that brings the postcolonial African experience to vivid life. Now based in Los Angeles, Abani published The Virgin of Flames in 2007. He is also a publisher, running the poetry imprint Black Goat Press .
Marisa,Fick-Jordan,The wonder of Zulu wire art,Craft artist, product designer,www.zenzulu.co.za/story.html,,Marisa Fick-Jordan is the co-author of Wired , the authoritative work on Zulu wire art. Using castoff telephone wire -- those plastic-coated copper strands you sometimes find outside switching boxes -- practitioners of this art create tightly woven pieces with bold patterning and fields of shimmering color.,Working with these talented African artists, Fick-Jordan has brought this art to the world, developing products and building a distribution network for a worldwide market. The end result a traditional art form is preserved and developed -- and a village of weavers can earn a living through their art.
Martin,Seligman,The new era of positive psychology,Psychologist,www.positivepsychology.org/,,Martin Seligman founded the field of positive psychology in 2000, and has devoted his career since then to furthering the study of positive emotion, positive character traits, and positive institutions. It's a fascinating field of study that had few empirical, scientific measures -- traditional clinical psychology focusing more on the repair of unhappy states than the propagation and nurturing of happy ones. In his pioneering work, Seligman directs the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, developing clinical tools and training the next generation of positive psychologists.,His earlier work focused on perhaps the opposite state learned helplessness , in which a person feels he or she is powerless to change a situation that is, in fact, changeable. Seligman is an often-cited authority in this field as well -- in fact, his is the 13th most likely name to pop up in a general psych textbook. He was the leading consultant on a Consumer Reports study on long-term psychotherapy, and has developed several common pre-employment tests, including the Seligman Attributional Style Questionnaire (SASQ) .
Keith,Barry,Brain magic,Magician, KeithBarry.com,,As Arthur C. Clarke told us, Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. So think of Keith Barry as a technologist, an elite software engineer of the human brain . Witty and direct, he celebrates human cleverness even while he's hacking it.,Barry's repertoire ranges from outrageous stunts -- driving a car at full speed blindfolded -- to mind control, including hypnosis and mindreading. The Irish magician's relaxed style has made him an audience favorite worldwide, both in live shows and on his European television series, Close Encounters with Keith Barry, which aired in 28 countries. He's had specials on MTV and CBS, and tried his hand at acting as a murder suspect on CSI Miami. There are rumors of a Las Vegas residency later in 2008.
AJ,Jacobs,My year of living biblically,Author,ajjacobs.com,,AJ Jacobs' writings stand at the intersection of philosophy, Gonzo journalism and performance art. Stubbornly curious and slyly perceptive, he takes immersive learning to its irrational and profoundly amusing extreme -- extracting wisdom and meaning after long stints as a self-styled guinea pig. For his widely circulated Esquire article  My Outsourced Life , he explored the phenomenon of outsourcing by hiring a team in Bangalore to take care of every part of his life -- from reading his emails to arguing with his wife to reading bedtime stories to his own son. A previous article,  I Think You're Fat , chronicled a brief, cringe-inducing attempt to live his life in Radical Honesty, telling all the truth, all the time.,Jacobs is author of The Know-It-All , which documents the year he spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z, uncovering both funny and surprising factoids but also poignant insight into history and human nature. In 2007 he released The Year of Living Biblically , in which he attempted to follow every single rule in the Bible as literally as possible for an entire year. His recent book My Life as an Experiment is a collection of numerous personal experiments. including living according to George Washington's rules of conduct, outsourcing every single task to India, and posing as a woman on an online dating site.
Billy,Graham,On technology and faith,Preacher,billygraham.org/,,According to his official bio, evangelist Billy Graham took the Bible literally where it says in Mark 1615, Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature. Graham has preached the Gospel to more people in live audiences than anyone else in history -- nearly 215 million people in more than 185 countries and territories. Hundreds of millions more have been reached through television, video, film and webcasts. Graham has written some 25 books, and his counsel has been sought by multiple U.S. presidents. His appeal in both the secular and religious arenas is evidenced by the wide range of groups that have honored him. Graham was the first major evangelist to speak behind the Iron Curtain, calling for peace in countries throughout Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union -- while during the Apartheid era he refused to visit South Africa until its government allowed for desegregated audiences. Through the praise and criticism of a public life that has nearly spanned a century, he has held fast to his conviction that faith in Jesus is the only path to salvation.,“My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.” — Billy Graham
Helen,Fisher,The brain in love,Anthropologist, expert on love,www.helenfisher.com/,,Helen Fisher's courageous investigations of romantic love -- its evolution, its biochemical foundations and its vital importance to human society -- are informing and transforming the way we understand ourselves. Fisher describes love as a universal human drive (stronger than the sex drive, stronger than thirst or hunger, stronger perhaps than the will to live) , and her many areas of inquiry shed light on timeless human mysteries, like why we choose one partner over another.,Almost unique among scientists, Fisher explores the science of love without losing a sense of romance  Her work frequently invokes poetry, literature and art -- along with scientific findings -- helping us appreciate our love affair with love itself. In her research, and in books such as Anatomy of Love , Why We Love , and her latest work Why Him? Why Her? How to Find and Keep Lasting Love , Fisher looks at questions with real impact on modern life. Her latest research raises serious concerns about the widespread, long-term use of antidepressants, which may undermine our natural process of attachment by tampering with hormone levels in the brain.
Freeman,Dyson,Let's look for life in the outer solar system,Physicist,www.sns.ias.edu/dyson,,From inventing Dyson Spheres, a sci-fi conceit postulating habitable shells around Sol-like stars, to space chickens and trees that grow in comets, Freeman Dyson is not afraid to go out on a cosmic limb . It would be wrong, however, to categorize him as a publicity-hungry peddler of headline-grabbing ideas. In his 60-year career as one of planet Earth's most distinguished scientists, several things characterize Dyson more than anything else compassion, caution and overwhelming humanism. In addition to his work as a scientist, Dyson is a renowned and best-selling author. His most recent book, A Many-Colored Glass , tackles nothing less than biotechnology, religion and the role of life in the universe. He does not shy away from controversy His recent critiques of the politics of the global warming debate have raised the hackles of some environmentalists. But far from wielding his conclusions like a bludgeon, Dyson wants younger generations of scientists to take away one thing from his work -- the necessity to create heresies of their own.,“What sets Dyson apart among an elite group of scientists is the conscience and compassion he brings to his work” — Kristi Coale, Salon.comNellie,McKay,Mother of Pearl, If I Had You,Singer/songwriter,www.nelliemckay.com/,,Playful, quirky, hilarious, endearing not attributes of your typical political agitator. But singer-songwriter-producer-activist Nellie McKay merits the description. Her music is whimsical, colorful, catchy and as engaging as it is restless. Toying with antique genres and yet undeniably contemporary, it flirts with multiple styles of delivery while maintaining a sharp social conscience.,For these and other eccentricities, McKay has gained a devoted fan following. On stage and off, she's an outspoken advocate of animal rights , a friend and ally to any arch political quip and -- lucky for us -- artistically uncompromising. After cutting two major-label records, her own indie label, Hungry Mouse, produced her latest, Obligatory Villagers .
Clay,Shirky,Institutions vs. collaboration,Social Media Theorist, Shirky.com,,Clay Shirky's work focuses on the rising usefulness of networks -- using decentralized technologies such as peer-to-peer sharing, wireless, software for social creation, and open-source development. New technologies are enabling new kinds of cooperative structures to flourish as a way of getting things done in business, science, the arts and elsewhere, as an alternative to centralized and institutional structures, which he sees as self-limiting. In his writings and speeches he has argued that a group is its own worst enemy.,Shirky is an adjunct professor in New York University?s graduate Interactive Telecommunications Program , where he teaches a course named “ Social Weather .” He?s the author of several books. This spring at the TED headquarters in New York, he gave an impassioned talk against SOPA/PIPA that saw 1 million views in 48 hours.
David,Hoffman,What happens when you lose everything,Filmmaker,www.thehoffmancollection.com/about.htm,,Documentary filmmaker David Hoffman has been capturing reality for almost 4 decades, following his wide-ranging interests and turning them into films for PBS, The Discovery Channel, A&E, National Geographic. Highlights from his career include the groundbreaking experimental doc King, Murray , which blurred boundaries between truth and fiction as it tracks its subject through a debauched weekend in Las Vegas, A Day With Filmmaker Timmy Page , about a 12-year-old auteur, and his series of films on American indigenous music. Lately, he has become fascinated with the Atomic-era Space Race, turning out a feature-length documentary about the Sputnik era . Sputnik Mania was scored by Thomas Dolby and has played at festivals and theaters around the country.,Hoffman suffered a devastating setback in early 2008 when, nine days before TED2008, his home, containing a vast archive from his long and fascinating career, burnt to the ground . His next project to reframe his life and rebuild.,,,,https//www.ted.com/...a_hero_of_the_congo_forest/transcript?.,,,
Corneille,Ewango,A hero of the Congo forest,Botanist and activist,whc.unesco.org/.../mis7..,,Corneille Ewango grew up in a family of poachers and hunters -- it was simply a way of life in his village. But when he got the chance to go to school, he found a new mission -- to study and preserve the flora and fauna of his region, the Congo Basin forest. In his passion for the forest, Ewango found himself an unwitting hero , taking bold steps to secure its resources and convince warring parties to leave it in peace.,The Congo Basin's great forests are under pressure from many angles. Settlers look here for fresh farmland, miners look for deposits of valuable col-tan, and soldiers fight over the forests both as territory to be won and as a resource for bush meat (from the threatened okapi) and cooking charcoal. It's home to families of pygmies and herds of okapi -- and a treasure house of green, growing things.
Raul,Midon,Peace on Earth,Guitarist,www.raulmidon.com,,Raul Midon is into beating the odds, shattering stereotypes, and making category-defying music. I was told as a child, 'You're blind, you can't do this,' Midon told an interviewer in 2005. I was told when I moved to New York, 'You can't do that, you're not going to make it.' At 40, however, Midon has clearly made it.,After singing backup vocals for stars like Shakira, Julio Iglesias, Jennifer Lopez and Christina Aguilera, Midon released his major-label solo debut, State of Mind , with help from guest artist Jason Mraz. Midon's innovative songwriting incorporates his lyrics, guitar handiwork (jazz, classical, flamenco, R&B) and vocal trumpet improvisation. Though he draws comparisons to Stevie Wonder, Donny Hathaway and Richie Havens, Midon is the rare original in an industry of few.
Rick,Smolan,The story of a girl,Photographer,thehumanfaceofbigdata.com/team/,,Photographer Rick Smolan is the co-creator of the America at Home project, which captured the emotions of home across the United States during a week in September 2008 . More than 20,000 photographers -- pros and amateurs -- sent images to a team of editors assembled by Smolan and partner Jennifer Erwitt, who turned the photos into an eye-popping book. It's become a best-seller, of course, helped along by the fact that buyers can choose their own image for the cover .,Smolan has long been a force for exploring culture through photography . The Day in the Life photography series that he cofounded -- best-selling photo books that captured life in America, Australia, the Soviet Union ... -- were an '80s cultural phenomenon. (Rare was the coffee table without at least one of them.) In the 1990s his production company, Against All Odds , investigated the storytelling powers of interactive CD-ROMs with From Alice to Ocean , a narrative of a cross-Australia trek, and Passage to Vietnam , exploring that country as it opened up in the early 1990s. 24 Hours in Cyberspace took a snapshot of the booming industry in 1996, and One Digital Day in 1997 further explored our fascination with tech.
Peter,Diamandis,Stephen Hawking's zero g flight,Space activist,www.diamandis.com/,,Watch the live onstage debate with Paul Gilding that followed Peter Diamandis' 2012 TEDTalk >>,Peter Diamandis is the founder and chair of the X Prize Foundation , a nonprofit whose mission is simply to bring about radical breakthroughs for the benefit of humanity. By offering a big cash prize for a specific accomplishment, the X Prize stimulates competition and excitement around some of the planet's most important goals. Diamandis is also co-founder and chairman of Singularity University which runs Exponential Technologies Executive and Graduate Student Programs.
Sxip,Shirey,A performance with breath, music, passion,Musician,www.sxipshirey.com/,,Sxip Shirey tests the edge of music as he builds ecstatic melody, unimaginable sounds and deep sexy beats from mutant instruments and everyday objects. Using his vast imagination and an array of materials (his list includes Industrial Flutes, Bullhorn Harmonica, Regurgitated Music Box , Triple Extended Pennywhistles, Miniature Hand Bell Choir, Obnoxiophone, Glass Bowls With Red Marbles and a clutch of curious objects), he constructs playful, mischievous acoustic beauty.,The charismatic ringmaster hosts a variety show, Sxip's Hour of Charm , at Joe's Pub in New York City , with a lineup that hosts some of the best and certainly some of the most unusual performance artists in the country. He also plays with the Luminescent Orchestrii .
Nellie,McKay,Clonie,Singer/songwriter,www.nelliemckay.com/,,Playful, quirky, hilarious, endearing not attributes of your typical political agitator. But singer-songwriter-producer-activist Nellie McKay merits the description. Her music is whimsical, colorful, catchy and as engaging as it is restless. Toying with antique genres and yet undeniably contemporary, it flirts with multiple styles of delivery while maintaining a sharp social conscience.,For these and other eccentricities, McKay has gained a devoted fan following. On stage and off, she's an outspoken advocate of animal rights , a friend and ally to any arch political quip and -- lucky for us -- artistically uncompromising. After cutting two major-label records, her own indie label, Hungry Mouse, produced her latest, Obligatory Villagers .
Nicholas,Negroponte,One Laptop per Child, two years on,Tech visionary,www.media.mit.edu/~nicholas/,,A pioneer in the field of computer-aided design, Negroponte founded (and was the first director of) MIT's Media Lab , which helped drive the multimedia revolution and now houses more than 500 researchers and staff across a broad range of disciplines. An original investor in Wired (and the magazine's patron saint), for five years he penned a column exploring the frontiers of technology -- ideas that he expanded into his 1995 best-selling book Being Digital . An angel investor extraordinaire, he's funded more than 40 startups, and served on the boards of companies such as Motorola and Ambient Devices.,But his latest effort, the One Laptop per Child project, may prove his most ambitious. The organization is designing, manufacturing and distributing low-cost, wireless Internet-enabled computers costing roughly $100 and aimed at children. Negroponte hopes to put millions of these devices in the hands of children in the developing world.
Benjamin,Zander,The transformative power of classical music,Conductor,www.benjaminzander.com/,,Since 1979, Benjamin Zander has been the conductor of the Boston Philharmonic. He is known around the world as both a guest conductor and a speaker on leadership -- and he's been known to do both in a single performance. He uses music to help people open their minds and create joyful harmonies that bring out the best in themselves and their colleagues.,His provocative ideas about leadership are rooted in a partnership with Rosamund Stone Zander, with whom he co-wrote The Art of Possibility .
Steven,Levitt,Surprising stats about child carseats,Economist, Freakonomics.com,,With his 2005 book Freakonomics (co-authored with Stephen Dubner, a writer who profiled him for the New York Times ), Steven Levitt carried hardcore economic method into the squishy real world and produced a pop-culture classic. Freakonomics is both an economics textbook and a series of cautionary tales about the fallacy of conventional wisdom . Levitt examines the links between real-world events, and finds many instances where the data simply doesn't back up popular belief. He asks provocative questions If selling crack is so lucrative, why do dealers live with their mothers? Does parental doting really improve children's test scores? Did New York City's crime rate really drop because of police tactics (or population trends)? His controversial answers stir debate , and sometimes backlash.,Read Steven Levitt's Reddit AMA >>
Adam,Grosser,A mobile fridge for vaccines,Venture capitalist,www.silverlake.com/print.asp?pageID=8...,,Adam Grosser is a venture capitalist, working with startups that are exploring new ideas in data communications, electronics and energy management. With a background in engineering and entertainment, he enjoys looking for opportunities that map over a few of his passions -- which also include greentech.,His passion for a sustainable solution to refrigeration -- for storing food and medicines -- led to the project he describes in his 2007 TEDTalk.
Robert,Full,Robots inspired by cockroach ingenuity,Biologist,polypedal.berkeley.edu,,UC Berkeley biologist Robert Full is fascinated by the motion of creatures like cockroaches, crabs and geckos having many legs, unusual feet or talented tails. He has led an effort to demonstrate the value of learning from Nature by the creating interdisciplinary collaborations of biologists, engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists from academia and industry. He founded CiBER , the Center for interdisciplinary Bio-inspiration in Education and Research, and the Poly-PEDAL Laboratory , which studies the Performance, Energetics and Dynamics of Animal Locomotion (PEDAL) in many-footed creatures (Poly).,His research shows how studying a diversity of animals leads to the discovery of general principles which inspire the design of novel circuits, artificial muscles, exoskeletons, versatile scampering legged search-and-rescue robots and synthetic self-cleaning dry adhesives based on gecko feet. He is passionate about discovery-based education leading to innovation -- and he even helped Pixar’s insect animations in the film A Bug's Life.
Dean,Ornish,Your genes are not your fate,Physician, author,ornishspectrum.com/,,Dr. Dean Ornish wants you to live longer, and have more fun while you're at it. He's one of the leading voices in the medical community promoting a balanced, holistic approach to health, and proving that it works. The author of Eat More, Weigh Less and several other best-selling books, Ornish is best known for his lifestyle-based approach to fighting heart disease .,His research at the Preventive Medicine Research Institute (the nonprofit he founded) clinically demonstrated that cardiovascular illnesses -- and, most recently prostate cancer -- can be treated and even reversed through diet and exercise . These findings (once thought to be physiologically implausible) have been widely chronicled in the US media, including Newsweek , for which Ornish writes a column. The fifty-something physician, who's received many honors and awards, was chosen by LIFE Magazine as one of the most influential members of his generation. Among his many pursuits, Ornish is now working with food corporations to help stop America's obesity pandemic from spreading around the globe.
Chris,Jordan,Turning powerful stats into art,Artist,www.chrisjordan.com,,Photographer Chris Jordan trains his eye on American consumption. His 2003-05 series Intolerable Beauty examines the hypnotic allure of the sheer amount of stuff we make and consume every day  cliffs of baled scrap, small cities of shipping containers, endless grids of mass-produced goods.,His 2005 book In Katrina's Wake Portraits of Loss from an Unnatural Disaster is a chilling, unflinching look at the toll of the storm. And his latest series of photographs, Running the Numbers, gives dramatic life to statistics of US consumption . Often-heard factoids like We use 2 million plastic bottles every 5 minutes become a chilling sea of plastic that stretches beyond our horizon.
George,Dyson,The birth of the computer,Historian of science,https//en.wikipedia.org/.../George_Dyson,,The development of the Aleutian kayak, its adaptation by Russians in the 18th and 19th centuries, and his own redevelopment of the craft in the 1970s was chronicled in George Dyson’s Baidarka The Kayak of 1986. His 1997 Darwin Among the Machines The Evolution of Global Intelligence (“the last book about the Internet written without the Internet”) explored the history and prehistory of digital computing and telecommunications as a manifestation of the convergent destiny of organisms and machines.,Project Orion The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship , published in 2002, assembled first-person interviews and recently declassified documents to tell the story of a path not taken into space a nuclear-powered spaceship whose objective was to land a party of 100 people on Mars four years before we landed two people on the Moon. Turing's Cathedral The Origins of the Digital Universe , published in 2012, illuminated the transition from numbers that mean things to numbers that do things in the aftermath of World War II.
Murray,Gell-Mann,The ancestor of language,Physicist,www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/.../gell-mann-bio.html,,He's been called the man with five brains -- and Murray Gell-Mann has the resume to prove it. In addition to being a Nobel laureate, he is an accomplished physicist who's earned numerous awards, medals and honorary degrees for his work with subatomic particles, including the groundbreaking theory that the nucleus of an atom comprises 100 or so fundamental building blocks called quarks .,Gell-Mann's influence extends well beyond his field He's a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Council on Foreign Relations. He also serves on the board of the Wildlife Conservation Society and is a director of Encyclopedia Britannica. Gell-Mann, a professor emeritus of Caltech, now heads the evolution of human languages program at the Santa Fe Institute , which he cofounded in 1984.
Wade,Davis,The worldwide web of belief and ritual,Anthropologist, ethnobotanist,daviswade.com,,Wade Davis is perhaps the most articulate and influential western advocate for the world's indigenous cultures. A National Geographic Explorer-in-Residence, he has been described as “a rare combination of scientist, scholar, poet and passionate defender of all of life’s diversity.” Trained in anthropology and botany at Harvard, he travels the globe to live alongside indigenous people, and document their cultural practices in books, photographs, and film. His stunning photographs and evocative stories capture the viewer's imagination. As a speaker, he parlays that sense of wonder into passionate concern over the rate at which cultures and languages are disappearing -- 50 percent of the world's 7,000 languages, he says, are no longer taught to children. He argues, in the most beautiful terms, that language is much more than vocabulary and grammatical rules. Every language is an old-growth forest of the mind.,Indigenous cultures are not failed attempts at modernity, let alone failed attempts to be us. They are unique expressions of the human imagination and heart, unique answers to a fundamental question What does it mean to be human and alive? When asked this question, the peoples of the world respond in 7,000 different voices, and these collectively comprise our human repertoire for dealing with all the challenges that will confront us as a species over the coming centuries.
Rokia,Traore,Kounandi,Singer-songwriter,www.rokiatraore.net,,Born into a traveling, diplomatic family, Rokia Traore absorbed her own Malian traditions into a world-ranging love of music. Playing off the griot tradition, she tweaks the traditional Bamana styles by playing her own acoustic guitar and arranging haunting backing vocals. Her smooth sound is punctuated by the heartfelt, raw tone of the n'goni lute and the harp-like kamala.,Most recently, Traore has made news for a triumphant quasi-opera on the final year of Mozart's life. Wati re-imagines a dying Mozart as a griot in ancient West Africa, heir to a long line of hereditary musicians . The work, commissioned by opera director Peter Sellars, has played to thrilled audiences across Europe. Her 2001 album Bowmboi included collaborations with the Kronos Quartet, further enriching her modern Malian sound.
Nathan,Myhrvold,Archeology, animal photography, BBQ ...,Polymath,www.nathanmyhrvold.com/,,Since leaving his post as Microsoft's Chief Technology Officer in 1999 (with fortune in tow), Nathan Myhrvold has been a professional exemplar of the spirit of the Renaissance Man, proudly following his interests wherever they've led. His dispersed passions have triggered an impressive list of accomplishments, including world barbecue championships, major archeological finds (several Tyrannosaurus rex skeletons), prize-winning wildlife photography , building a section of Babbage's Difference Engine #2, s, and a new and consuming interest in the sous-vide cooking technique . Malcolm Gladwell's 2008 New Yorker profile of him revealed an impish but truly inspired character whose latest company, Intellectual Ventures -- which brainstorms and patents a wide array of inventions -- has been accused in some quarters of acting like a 'patent troll' but is described by Myhrvold as a disruptive organization providing an efficient way for patent holders to get paid for the inventions they own, and... for technology companies to gain easy access to the invention rights they need. After funding big-vision projects such as the Allen Telescope Array , exploring active volcanoes and investigating penguin digestion, Myhrvold insists that his hobbies aren't as discursive as they seem. They do have a common denominator, after all him.,“He is gregarious, enthusiastic, and nerdy on an epic scale.” — Malcolm Gladwell
Susan,Blackmore,Memes and temes,Memeticist,www.susanblackmore.co.uk/,,Susan Blackmore is dedicated to understanding the scientific nature of consciousness. Her latest work centers on the existence of memes -- little bits of knowledge, lore, habit that seem to spread themselves using human brains as mere carriers. She's exploring the existence of a new class of meme, spread by human technology. It's temporarily named the teme.,She has written about memes, consciousness, and near-death experiences, has appeared on the British Big Brother to discuss the psychology of the participants, and writes for the Guardian UK.
Paul,Collier,The bottom billion,Economist,https//www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/.../politics-hunger? ,,Paul Collier studies the political and economic problems of the very poorest countries 50 societies, many in sub-Saharan Africa, that are stagnating or in decline, and taking a billion people down with them . His book The Bottom Billion identifies the four traps that keep such countries mired in poverty, and outlines ways to help them escape, with a mix of direct aid and external support for internal change.,From 1998 to 2003, Collier was the director of the World Bank's Development Research Group, he now directs the Centre for the Study of African Economies at Oxford, where he continues to advise policymakers.
Seyi,Oyesola,A hospital tour in Nigeria,Doctor,www.medway.nhs.uk › ... › LR,,Beyond high-visibility illnesses like HIV/AIDS, Dr. Seyi Oyesola points out that common, survivable ailments and injuries -- burns, trauma, heart attacks -- kill thousands of Africans each year because basic medical care can be so hard to get. To help bring surgical care to every region of the continent, Oyesola co-developed CompactOR, or the Hospital in a Box a portable medical system that contains anesthetic and surgical equipment. The operating suite is light enough to be dropped into inaccessible zones by helicopter, and can be powered by solar panels. Although the Hospital-in-a-Box may save lives, Oyesola reminds us that with meager pay and inadequate facilities, there is still little incentive for medical professionals to remain in Africa . Proper education and technical training could pave the way for more, and more capable, new physicians to learn and stay in Africa -- and start the healing of the continent.,
Arthur,Ganson,Moving sculpture,Sculptor,www.arthurganson.com/,,A modern-day creator of twittering machines, Arthur Ganson uses simple, plain materials to build witty mechanical art. But the wit is not simply about Rube Goldberg-ian chain-reaction gags (though you'll find a few of those). His work examines the quiet drama of physical motion, whether driven by a motor or by the actions of the viewer. Notions of balance, of rising and falling, of action and reaction and consequence, play themselves out in wire and steel and plastic.,Ganson has been an artist-in-residence at MIT (where the Lemelson-MIT Award Program named him an Inventor of the Week, and where his show  Gestural Engineering  is ongoing) and has shown his work at art and science museums around the world -- including the legendary  Machine with Concrete , which will put on quite a show ... in 2 trillion years.
Yves,Behar,Designing objects that tell stories,Designer,www.fuseproject.com/,,Over the past decade, Yves Behar and his firm fuseproject have become the design group that companies turn to for a game-changing idea . Take the re-invention of the Bluetooth headset , for one, or the re-envigoration of the venerable but dowdy Birkenstock line, or Behar's LED-chic Leaf lamp for Herman Miller.,And yes, Behar and fuseproject are the people who put the green bunny ears on the XO laptop -- and are redesigning the next-gen XOXO laptop due in 2010. This quirky but deeply felt project encapsulates much of his recent work, fusing gotta-have-it design with a mission of social responsibility.
Robert,Ballard,The astonishing hidden world of the deep ocean,Oceanographer,oceanexplorer.noaa.go..,,From an early age, Robert Ballard was intrigued by the deep. He's perhaps best-known for his work in underwater archaeology, in addition to Titanic , he has found the wrecks of the Bismarck , the USS Yorktown , the nuclear sub Thresher (on a top-secret mission for the Navy -- for which the Titanic was his cover story) and John F. Kennedy's PT-109 .,His contributions to our scientific knowledge of the ocean is just as awe-inspiring. He was in the first team of humans to view the deep-sea vents , and to understand how life can not only survive but thrive in these deep black waters, under extreme pressure and at extreme temperature.
Mark,Bittman,What's wrong with what we eat,Food writer,markbittman.com/,,Although Mark Bittman never formally trained as a chef, his pursuits as a curious and tenacious foodie have made him a casual culinary master. His weekly New York Times food column, The Minimalist , meshes accessible and inexpensive ingredients with anyone-can cooking techniques to produce exceedingly delicious dishes. Bittman's funny, friendly attitude and trademark informal approach to food-craft extend to his blockbuster TV programs (which retain delays and mishaps that other producers would edit out), his blog, Bitten , and ambitious cookbooks, like How to Cook Everything and The Best Recipes in the World .,After a decade as the Minimalist, Bittman has emerged a respected spokesperson on all things edible He's concerned about the ecological and health impacts of our modern diet , which he characterizes as overwhelmingly meat-centered and hooked on fast food. His criticism has the world listening His revolutionary How to Cook Everything Vegetarian (sequel to How to Cook Everything ), is a bestseller, and his memorable talk at the 2007 EG Conference (available now on TED.com) delivered a stinging condemnation of the way we eat now. A subsequent New York Times article pursued the same argument.
Alisa,Miller,How the news distorts our worldview,CEO, Public Radio International (PRI),www.pri.org/people/alisa-miller,,Alisa Miller wants to define the future of how people will engage with storytelling and technology. She's CEO of PRI, Public Radio International, and is leading the organization’s transformation from a creator and distributor of news and audio into a multiplatform medium that informs and enables millions of people to act on stories that move them. An advocate for global perspectives in the news, she recently launched the Across Women's Lives Initiative at the Clinton Global Initiative to increase news coverage and engagement around global women’s issues.,
Joshua,Klein,A thought experiment on the intelligence of crows,Hacker,www.josh.is/crow-machine/,,Joshua Klein will hack anything that moves -- his list includes social systems, computer networks, institutions, consumer hardware and animal behavior. His latest project, though charmingly low-tech, has amazing implications for the human-animal interface.,Right now, Klein is working at Frog Design as a Principle Technologist, while developing mobile/social applications, health care-related systems and other tools that improve people's lives . He's the author of the novel Roo'd , which was the first modern book (after Tarzan ) to be ported to the iPhone.
Michael,Moschen,Juggling as art ... and science,Juggler,www.michaelmoschen.com/,,A high school dropout turned MacArthur genius grant recipient, Michael Moschen is an art juggler, spawning scores of imitators and an entire methodology of crystal-ball juggling he likes to call Dynamic Manipulation. (The previously mentioned imitators call it Contact Juggling, a term that Moschen himself despises.) With a penchant for discipline, choreography, and catching flying balls -- and using props that include flaming torches, hoops, rods, and a ten-foot plastic triangle enclosure within which he stands, bouncing balls against the sides to achieve incredible patterns and velocities -- he creates illusions of speed and light that push the envelope of what is possible within this age-old circus art. Many of his techniques and routines are showcased in In Motion with Michael Moschen , a program produced in 1991 for National Public Television's Great Performances series.,“Mr. Moschen is a juggler. But that simple statement, though accurate, fails to do justice to the enchantment of his presentation. Mr. Moschen turns juggling into a fine art, so that it grows akin to dance ... Mr. Moschen creates what could be called a visual music in space with his juggling.” — New York Times
Paul,Ewald,Can we domesticate germs?,Evolutionary biologist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/paul_ewald,,Paul Ewald has a problem with modern medicine It ignores the fact that many diseases of unknown origin can be linked to slow-growing infections caused by viruses, bacteria and other microorganisms. Ewald -- whose theory stems from both a formal education in biological sciences, ecology, and evolution, and a personal bout with diarrhea in the 1970s -- aims to change this thinking. To that end, he has written popular news articles, academic papers, and two books ( Evolution of Infectious Disease and Plague Time ) that explain and expand his idea. Ewald is regarded as the leading expert in the emerging field of evolutionary medicine. He directs the evolutionary medicine program in the Biology department at the University of Louisville, Kentucky, and lectures worldwide. Among other honors, Ewald was the first recipient of the Smithsonian Institution's George E. Burch Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and Affiliated Sciences, which was established to foster pioneering work in health sciences .,“Ewald smashe[s] the old, and unfortunately still widely accepted, notion that parasites and their hosts inevitably evolve toward a benign coexistence.” — Scientific American
Paul,Stamets,6 ways mushrooms can save the world,Mycologist,www.fungi.com/,,Entrepreneurial mycologist Paul Stamets seeks to rescue the study of mushrooms from forest gourmets and psychedelic warlords. The focus of Stamets' research is the Northwest's native fungal genome, mycelium , but along the way he has filed 22 patents for mushroom-related technologies , including pesticidal fungi that trick insects into eating them, and mushrooms that can break down the neurotoxins used in nerve gas.,There are cosmic implications as well. Stamets believes we could terraform other worlds in our galaxy by sowing a mix of fungal spores and other seeds to create an ecological footprint on a new planet.
Hector,Ruiz,The thinking behind 50x15,CEO,www.hectorruiz.com/,,Hector Ruiz is executive chairman of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Born in Piedras Negras, Mexico, Dr. Ruiz is passionate about the role of technology in education and empowering the underprivileged. At the 2004 World Economic Forum in Davos, he announced AMD's 50x15 Initiative, a commitment to provide 50 percent of the world's population with basic Internet access by the year 2015 . Ruiz contends that his company's 50x15 initiative is not only possible, it is perhaps the most important transformational event we will experience in our lifetime.,“Technology is only as powerful as it is accessible. The IT industry has nearly unlimited potential to educate the world by connecting the world.” — Hector Ruiz
They,Might,Wake up!,Band,www.theymightbegiants.com/,,Geek-pop maestros John Linnell and John Flansburgh of They Might Be Giants can count inspired adults, inquisitive children, casual pop listeners and underground connoisseurs as equals among their fan base. From their origins in New York City's alternative rock scene in the 1980s to the children's entertainment industry 20 years later, they've been crafting quirky, lore-filled tunes which, despite their capricious instrumentation, remain catchy, effervescent, enduring -- and almost defiantly accessible. As the first major-label band to release an album in exclusively MP3 format, They Might Be Giants are no strangers to offbeat, tech-centric projects. For their album Apollo 18 (named for a nonexistent moon mission), NASA dubbed them the Musical Ambassadors for International Space Year in 1992 -- while their Dial-A-Song answering machine is the stuff of D.I.Y. music legend. They continue to give away video and audio from live shows, write and distribute new, free songs frequently, and their list of ingenious projects is endless.,
Brian,Cox,CERN's supercollider,Physicist,www.apolloschildren.com/,,Based at the University of Manchester, Brian Cox works at CERN in Geneva on the ATLAS experiment , studying the forward proton detectors for the Large Hadron Collider there. He's a professor at the University of Manchester, working in the High Energy Physics group, and is a research fellow of the Royal Society .,He's also become a vital voice in the UK media for explaining physics to the public . With his rockstar hair and accessible charm, he's the go-to physicist for explaining heady concepts on British TV and radio. (If you're in the UK, watch him on The Big Bang Machine .) He was the science advisor for the 2007 film Sunshine . He answers science questions every Friday on BBC6 radio's Breakfast Show .
Brian,Greene,Making sense of string theory,Physicist,www.briangreene.org/,,Greene, a professor of physics and mathematics at Columbia University, has focused on unified theories for more than 25 years, and has written several best-selling and non-technical books on the subject including The Elegant Universe , a Pulitzer finalist, and The Fabric of the Cosmos —each of which has been adapted into a NOVA mini-series. His latest book, The Hidden Reality, explores the possibility that our universe is not the only universe.,Greene believes science must be brought to general audiences in new and compelling ways, such as his live stage odyssey, Icarus at the Edge of Tim e, with original orchestral score by Philip Glass, and the annual World Science Festival, which he co-founded in 2008 with journalist Tracy Day.
Amy,Tan,Where does creativity hide?,Novelist,https//www.amytan.net/,,Born in the US to immigrant parents from China, Amy Tan rejected her mother's expectations that she become a doctor and concert pianist. She chose to write fiction instead. Her much-loved, best-selling novels have been translated into 35 languages. In 2008, she wrote a libretto for The Bonesetter's Daughter , which premiered that September with the San Francisco Opera.,Tan was the creative consultant for Sagwa , the Emmy-nominated PBS series for children, and she has appeared as herself on The Simpsons . She's the lead rhythm dominatrix, backup singer and second tambourine with the Rock Bottom Remainders , a literary garage band that has raised more than a million dollars for literacy programs.
Ernest,Madu,World-class health care,Cardiologist,www.caribbeanheart.com/profiles-madu.php,,Dr. Ernest Chijioke Madu believes that people in the developing world have a right to world-class health care . At his three Heart Institute of the Caribbean clinics --in Kingston and Mandeville, Jamaica, and in the Cayman Islands -- he delivers more than $1 million a year in free or reduced-care treatment, a significant contribution in an area where 56% of hospital deaths are caused by cardiovascular disease. Now Dr. Madu is hoping to transfer HIC's mission and achievements into other low-resource nations. His next target is Nigeria, his home country, where the Heart Institute of West Africa is scheduled to open in 2009. Though AIDS and malaria are huge factors for Africa, Dr. Madu emphasizes the importance of treating cardiovascular disease , which is the second leading cause of death in sub-Saharan Africa, after HIV/AIDS, and the leading cause of death for people over 30. Dr. Madu's work on noninvasive evaluation of coronary artery disease in obese individuals has become a standard evaluating tool.,“Dr Madu has shown that in an interconnected world, technology, expertise and the human (I’d say Nigerian spirit) spirit can support make the seemingly impossible, possible.” — Chikwe Ihekweazu, at Nigeria Health Watch
Yochai,Benkler,The new open-source economics,Legal expert,benkler.org/,,Larry Lessig calls law professor Yochai Benkler the leading intellectual of the information age. He studies the commons -- including such shareable spaces as the radio spectrum, as well as our shared bodies of knowledge and how we access and change them.,His most recent writings (such as his 2006 book The Wealth of Networks ) discuss the effects of net-based information production on our lives and minds and laws. He has gained admirers far beyond the academy, so much so that when he released his book online with a Creative Commons license, it was mixed and remixed online by fans. (Texts can be found at benkler.org , and check out this web-based seminar on The Wealth of Networks .) He was awarded EFF's Pioneer Award in 2007.
Tod,Machover,Inventing instruments that unlock new music,Composer, inventor,web.media.mit.edu/~tod/,,Tod Machover is head of the MIT Media Lab's Hyperinstruments/Opera of the Future group. He has composed five operas and helped to develop many groundbeaking musical technologies -- including Hyperinstruments , a technology that augments musical expression for both virtuosi (from Yo-Yo Ma to Prince) and amateurs, and Hyperscore , software that allows anyone to create sophisticated, original music by using lines and colors. Many of Machover's principles about active participation in music are exemplified in Guitar Hero , which grew out of his lab.,Among his current projects is a new opera, Death and the Powers , complete with a musical chandelier, animatronic walls, and an army of robots. Death and the Powers premieres in Monaco in September 2009. A recent focus of Machover's group has been on Music, Mind and Health , which marshals the power of music to promote well-being. Working with long-term patients at facilities such as Tewksbury Hospital, north of Boston, the group's goal is to develop personal musical activities that adapt to the particular skills and needs of each individual. In this way, the path to health becomes as rewarding as learning an instrument, composing a symphony, or premiering at Carnegie Hall.
Johnny,Lee,Free or cheap Wii Remote hacks,Human-computer interaction researcher,www.theofficialjohnnylee.com/,,To understand Johnny Lee, just take a look at his website . Aside from his Wii Remote hacks -- voted the #1 tech demo of all time by Digg -- you can see all the other places his mind has turned typography, photography , urban renewal ... to say nothing of his interesting sideline in Little Great Ideas , like the hypnotic  ___ will ___ you .,After earning his PhD from the the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, he joined the team at Microsoft responsible for Project Natal , a controller-free motion sensing device for the Xbox 360. He's since turned his attention to accelerated technology R&D at Google.
Al,Gore,New thinking on the climate crisis,Climate-change prophet,https//www.algore.com,,Unlike some in public office, Al Gore always intended to get something done, and since leaving Washington, DC -- following the tumultuous 2000 election -- he's still at it. In fact, his campaign for alerting the world to the dangers of climate change has only gained momentum. His Oscar-winning An Inconvenient Truth is the third most successful documentary ever released at the box office. Gore's famed PowerPoint presentation has drawn in a reluctant public, with its meticulously researched content and lucid style.,Meanwhile, Gore himself has found his footing as a communicator. The once wooden style has given way to a warmth and humor that reveal the depth of his experience as a soldier, congressman, senator, veep, TV executive, teacher and author. Arguably, Gore is better positioned today than he has ever been to affect the future of our environment and world.
Stephen,Hawking,Questioning the universe,Theoretical physicist,www.hawking.org.uk/,,Stephen Hawking is perhaps the world's most famous living physicist. A specialist in cosmology and quantum gravity and a devotee of black holes, his work has probed the origins of the cosmos, the nature of time and the universe's ultimate fate -- earning him accolades including induction into the Order of the British Empire. To the public, he's best known as an author of bestsellers such as The Universe in a Nutshell and A Brief History of Time , which have brought an appreciation of theoretical physics to millions. Though the motor neuron disorder ALS has confined Hawking to a wheelchair, it hasn't stopped him from lecturing widely, making appearances on television shows such as Star Trek The Next Generation and The Simpsons -- and planning a trip into orbit with Richard Branson 's Virgin Galactic. (He recently experienced weightlessness aboard Zero Gravity Corporation 's Vomit Comet.) A true academic celebrity, he uses his public appearances to raise awareness about potential global disasters -- such as global warming -- and to speak out for the future of humanity Getting a portion of the human race permanently off the planet is imperative for our future as a species, he says. Hawking serves as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, where he continues to contribute to both high-level physics and the popular understanding of our universe.,“We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. But we can understand the Universe. That makes us something very special.” — Stephen Hawking
Jakob,Trollback,A new kind of music video,Designer,trollback.com,,Jakob Trollback is a designer and creative thinker -- and he's also a DJ, which becomes clear when you see the work of his firm, Trollback + Company, distinguished by an almost musical attention to rhythm, form and detail . As creative director for R/GA in the 1990s, Jakob Trollback was among the earliest group of designers to understand and embrace the importance of digital media , and the effect it would have on culture at large. Working on film titles, TV commercials, interactive displays ... Trollback translated the sea changes in media for advertisers and marketers, as well as Hollywood.,His firm Trollback + Company speciaizes in motion graphics -- those often-overlooked elements that set the tone for film and TV titles, short-form video and TV ad campaigns. Recently, Trollback designed the low-key but perfect titles for Deborah Scranton's Frontline documentary Bad Voodoo's War . They've also designed the video wall at the Frank Gehry-designed IAC building in New York City.
David,Hoffman,Sputnik mania,Filmmaker,www.thehoffmancollection.com/about.htm,,Documentary filmmaker David Hoffman has been capturing reality for almost 4 decades, following his wide-ranging interests and turning them into films for PBS, The Discovery Channel, A&E, National Geographic. Highlights from his career include the groundbreaking experimental doc King, Murray , which blurred boundaries between truth and fiction as it tracks its subject through a debauched weekend in Las Vegas, A Day With Filmmaker Timmy Page , about a 12-year-old auteur, and his series of films on American indigenous music. Lately, he has become fascinated with the Atomic-era Space Race, turning out a feature-length documentary about the Sputnik era . Sputnik Mania was scored by Thomas Dolby and has played at festivals and theaters around the country.,Hoffman suffered a devastating setback in early 2008 when, nine days before TED2008, his home, containing a vast archive from his long and fascinating career, burnt to the ground . His next project to reframe his life and rebuild.
Siegfried,Woldhek,The search for the true face of Leonardo,Illustrator,www.woldhek.nl/,,The work of illustrator Siegfried Woldhek is a familiar sight in the European press. His witty pen and sharp eye for faces helps him capture political and literary figures in his home country, the Netherlands, and around the world (he estimates he's drawn 1,100 faces). He's also an accomplished illustrator of nature, and was the longtime CEO of the Dutch branch of the World Wildlife Fund.,Woldhek is the founder of nabuur.com , the global neighbor network. On nabuur.com , villages in developing communities can connect with volunteers and resources online throughout the world -- sort of a Match.com that pairs communities with the people who'd like to get involved.
Rokia,Traore,M'Bifo,Singer-songwriter,www.rokiatraore.net/,,Born into a traveling, diplomatic family, Rokia Traore absorbed her own Malian traditions into a world-ranging love of music. Playing off the griot tradition, she tweaks the traditional Bamana styles by playing her own acoustic guitar and arranging haunting backing vocals. Her smooth sound is punctuated by the heartfelt, raw tone of the n'goni lute and the harp-like kamala.,Most recently, Traore has made news for a triumphant quasi-opera on the final year of Mozart's life. Wati re-imagines a dying Mozart as a griot in ancient West Africa, heir to a long line of hereditary musicians . The work, commissioned by opera director Peter Sellars, has played to thrilled audiences across Europe. Her 2001 album Bowmboi included collaborations with the Kronos Quartet, further enriching her modern Malian sound.
Clifford,Stoll,The call to learn,Astronomer, educator, skeptic,www.kleinbottle.com/,,When Clifford Stoll speaks, you can't help but listen. Full of restless energy, he jumps from one topic to the next, darting back and forth across the stage. You may not be sure where he's going, but the ride is always part of the adventure.,An astronomer (though his astronomy career took a turn when he noticed a bookkeeping error that ultimately led him to track down a notorious hacker), researcher and internationally recognized computer security expert -- who happens to be a vocal critic of technology -- Stoll makes a sharp, witty case for keeping computers out of the classroom. Currently teaching college-level physics to eighth graders at a local school, he stays busy in his spare time building Klein bottles .
Christopher,deCharms,A look inside the brain in real time,Brain researcher,www.crsltd.com/guest-talks/ted-talks/christopher-decharms,,Neuroscientist Christopher deCharms is helping to develop a new kind of MRI that allows doctor and patient to look inside the brain in real time -- to see visual representations of brain processes as they happen. With his company Omneuron, deCharms has developed technology they call rtfMRI, for real-time functional MRI -- which is exactly what it sounds like. You move your arm, your brain lights up. You feel pain, your brain lights up.,How could we use the ability to see our brains in action? For a start, to help treat chronic pain with a kind of biofeedback, being able to visualize pain can help patients control it. And longer-term uses boggle the mind. Ours is the first generation, he believes, to be able to train and build our minds as systematically as a weightlifter builds a muscle . What will we do with this?
Norman,Foster,My green agenda for architecture,Architect,www.fosterandpartners.com/,,From museums and banks to airports and bridges, from apartment buildings to the Reichstag, in the past 35 years Norman Foster's beautiful and efficient designs have dramatically changed the character of cities (think of the London Gherkin) and landscapes (the Viaduc de Millau) around the world. A common philosophy connects all of them, starting with social responsiveness and the use of natural resources (ventilation, light). Some of Foster's work has sparked controversy (such as his pyramid in Astana, Kazakhstan), but he has never ignored a chance to rewrite the rules of architecture , be it by tackling audaciously huge construction projects or by designing wind turbines and partly-solar-powered electric buses.,“Foster's style is seen as very much that of the new millennium -- clean, unfettered and environmentally aware.” — BBC News
Neil,Turok,My wish Find the next Einstein in Africa,Physicist, education activist, NextEinstein.org,,Neil Turok works on understanding the universe's very beginnings. With Stephen Hawking, he developed the Hawking-Turok instanton solutions, describing the birth of an inflationary universe -- positing that, big bang or no, the universe came from something, not from utter nothingness .,Recently, with Paul Steinhardt at Princeton, Turok has been working on a cyclic model for the universe in which the big bang is explained as a collision between two “brane-worlds.” The two physicists cowrote the popular-science book Endless Universe .
Karen,Armstrong,My wish The Charter for Compassion,Religious scholar,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Armstrong,,Religious thinker Karen Armstrong has written more than 20 books on faith and the major religions, studying what Islam, Judaism and Christianity have in common, and how our faiths shaped world history and drive current events.,A former nun, Armstrong has written two books about this experience Through the Narrow Gate , about her seven years in the convent, and The Spiral Staircase , about her subsequent spiritual awakening, when she developed her iconoclastic take on the major monotheistic religions -- and on the strains of fundamentalism common to all. She is a powerful voice for ecumenical understanding.
Dave,Eggers,My wish Once Upon a School,Author, publisher, education activist,826valencia.org/about/,,Dave Eggers' first book, A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius , was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize. Since then he's written two more novels and launched an independent publishing house, which publishes books, a quarterly literary journal ( McSweeney's ), a DVD-based review of short films ( Wholpin ), a monthly magazine ( The Believer ) and the Voice of Witness project.,Meanwhile, Eggers has established himself as a philanthropist and teacher-at-large. In 1998 he launched 826 Valencia , a San Francisco-based writing and tutoring lab for young people, which has since opened six more chapters across the United States. He has extended his advocacy of students by supporting their educators, instituting a monthly grant for exceptional Bay Area teachers. His TED Prize wish is for more people to follow him into getting involved in your local school -- and talk about it -- through the website Once Upon a School .
Frank,Gehry,My days as a young rebel,Architect,https//www.foga.com/,,Frank Gehry is one of the world's most influential architects. His designs for the likes of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in LA are bold statements that have imposed a new aesthetic of architecture on the world at large, enlivening streetscapes and creating new destinations. Gehry has extended his vision beyond brick-and-mortar too, collaborating with artists such as Claes Oldenberg and Richard Serra, and designing watches, teapots and a line of jewelry for Tiffany & Co.,Now in his 80s, Gehry refuses to slow down or compromise his fierce vision  He and his team at Gehry Partners are working on a $4 billion development of the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, and a spectacular Guggenheim museum in Abu Dhabi , United Arab Emirates, which interprets local architecture traditions into a language all his own. Incorporating local architectural motifs without simply paying lip service to Middle Eastern culture, the building bears all the hallmarks of a classic Gehry design.
Jill,Bolte,My stroke of insight,Neuroanatomist,www.drjilltaylor.com/,,One morning, a blood vessel in Jill Bolte Taylor's brain exploded. As a brain scientist, she realized she had a ringside seat to her own stroke . She watched as her brain functions shut down one by one motion, speech, memory, self-awareness ...,Amazed to find herself alive, Taylor spent eight years recovering her ability to think, walk and talk. She has become a spokesperson for stroke recovery and for the possibility of coming back from brain injury stronger than before. In her case, although the stroke damaged the left side of her brain, her recovery unleashed a torrent of creative energy from her right. From her home base in Indiana, she now travels the country on behalf of the Harvard Brain Bank as the Singin' Scientist.
Nicholas,Negroponte,5 predictions, from 1984,Tech visionary,www.media.mit.edu/~nicholas/,,A pioneer in the field of computer-aided design, Negroponte founded (and was the first director of) MIT's Media Lab , which helped drive the multimedia revolution and now houses more than 500 researchers and staff across a broad range of disciplines. An original investor in Wired (and the magazine's patron saint), for five years he penned a column exploring the frontiers of technology -- ideas that he expanded into his 1995 best-selling book Being Digital . An angel investor extraordinaire, he's funded more than 40 startups, and served on the boards of companies such as Motorola and Ambient Devices.,But his latest effort, the One Laptop per Child project, may prove his most ambitious. The organization is designing, manufacturing and distributing low-cost, wireless Internet-enabled computers costing roughly $100 and aimed at children. Negroponte hopes to put millions of these devices in the hands of children in the developing world.
Craig,Venter,On the verge of creating synthetic life,Biologist, genetics pioneer,jcvi.org/,,Craig Venter, the man who led the private effort to sequence the human genome, is hard at work now on even more potentially world-changing projects.,First, there's his mission aboard the Sorcerer II , a 92-foot yacht , which, in 2006, finished its voyage around the globe to sample, catalouge and decode the genes of the ocean's unknown microorganisms. Quite a task, when you consider that there are tens of millions of microbes in a single drop of sea water. Then there's the J. Craig Venter Institute , a nonprofit dedicated to researching genomics and exploring its societal implications.
Alan,Kay,A powerful idea about ideas,Educator and computing pioneer,Squeakland.com,,The best way to predict the future is to invent it. Alan Kay not only coined this favorite tech-world adage, but has proven its truth several times. A true polymath, as well as inventor, he has combined engineering brilliance with knowledge of child development, epistemology, molecular biology and more.,In the 1960s, Kay joined the computer team at XeroxPARC, where he worked on world-changing inventions like the graphical interface, object-oriented programming, and the personal computer itself. Later, at Apple, Atari, HP, Disney, and now at his own nonprofits, he has helped refine the tools he anticipated long before they were realized.
Roy,Gould,A preview of the WorldWide Telescope,Astronomer,mo-www.harvard.edu/OWN/credits.html,,Roy Gould works in the Science Education Department at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics . At the Center for Astrophysics, he has worked on collaborations with science museums and other institutions to capture the power of shared information, on projects such as the MicroObservatory , a network of five automated telescopes that can be controlled over the Internet.,Before this, Gould spent 10 years at the Boston Museum of Science , working as a senior exhibition planner. He's also been a producer on Nova , for WGBH in Boston.
Steve,Jurvetson,Model rocketry,Venture capitalist,dfj.com/content/steve-jurvetson,,Scary-smart is a phrase that comes up in coverage of Steve Jurvetson. In his work at Draper Fisher Jurvetson, he's taken early and influential positions on some world-changing tech ideas -- such as the viral marketing of Hotmail. Now, he's looking forward into nanotech and synthetic life, and the Valley is looking over his shoulder.,He's a passionate advocate of new thinking on technology -- especially on his thoughtful and funny blog, the J Curve. His massive Flickr set documents his many passions -- speaking at conferences, meeting like-minded geeks, shooting off rockets.
Joseph,Lekuton,A parable for Kenya,Kenyan MP,news.harvard.edu/gazette/2003/06.../24-lekuton.html,,Born into a Maasai tribe in Northern Kenya, Joseph Lekuton was chosen to attend a missionary boarding school as a child -- sometimes walking 50 miles during vacations to find and rejoin his nomadic family. He won a scholarship to St. Lawrence University, then attended Harvard, and worked as a writer and history teacher in Virginia. He was named a National Geographic Energing Explorer for his work in sharing the culture of Kenya with America, including efforts to share educational resources with nomadic children through the BOMA Fund and Cows for Kids . In 2006, after a plane crash killed five members of the Kenyan parliament, Lekuton decided to return to Kenya and stand for election to fill the seat in his region. He won a parliamentary seat in the 2006 by-election, and was a member of the winning party in the December 2007 elections -- the results of which continue to be contested throughout Kenya.,“In his first year in office, [Lekuton] compiled an impressive record. He channeled public funds to construct schoolrooms and boreholes for wells, lured Western development agencies to his constituency, mediated between ethnic groups in the region that have been clashing over livestock-grazing rights and access to water and distributed some of his ample salary to pay school fees and health-care costs for the indigent.” — New York Times Magazine
Raspyni,Brothers,Juggle and jest,Jugglers,www.raspyni.com,,The Raspyni Brothers' inventory of international championships , TV appearances and national tours may seem a lot to juggle, but then, Dan Holzman and Barry Friedman are jugglers by trade. Their waggish humor, irresistible stage presence and panther-like reflexes have turned these jesters from openers into the headline act. While the Raspynis sling their share of unique props, their trademark maneuver is (perhaps) the strategic interlude stalling difficult, dangerous stunts with quips, asides and even deliberate mistakes. The duo's arch brand of onstage chemistry often steals the spotlight from conventional juggling showstoppers. (Though, we should mention, they won't hesitate to use torches, sickles and machetes.) In recent years Friedman and Holzman have carved a niche on the business seminar circuit, electrifying corporate audiences with lessons on teamwork, balance, trust and -- if you happen to be the CEO -- mortal peril. Sergey Brin has remarked, They're the Google of comedy. So, welcome to Vaudeville 2.0.,“Their show is a wild, uninhibited, fast-moving comedy revue.” — Associated Press
Jill,Sobule,The Jill and Julia Show,Actor, comedian, playwright,jillsobule.com,,Known for her four-year run on Saturday Night Live and her powerful solo shows, Julia Sweeney is carving out her own territory in entertainment, one that moves between the personal and the political, the controversial and the comical. Her piece Letting Go of God traces a spiritual journey that takes an unexpected turn toward science (a turn that, incidentally, also led her to TED) and ends with atheism. Her latest book is If It's Not One Thing, It's Your Mother, on parenting and being parented. In this, as in all her performances, Sweeney projects a warmth and sincerity on stage that's unmatched in today's theater, you immediately feel you're chatting with an old friend. And this gift of intimacy allows her to achieve the impossible an utterly disarming show that honestly confronts the most controversial topic of our times. Her earlier shows God Said “Ha!” and In the Family Way also garnered praise and prizes for their pairings of humor and poignant truth.,“Without breaking her affably conversational tone, in Letting Go of God she inhabits the emotional memory of each step on her path.” — New York Times
Moshe,Safdie,Building uniqueness,Architect,www.msafdie.com/,,Moshe Safdie's master's thesis quickly became a cult building his modular Habitat '67 apartments for Montreal Expo '67. Within a dizzying pile of concrete, each apartment was carefully sited to have natural light and a tiny, private outdoor space for gardening. These themes have carried forward throughout Safdie's career -- his buildings tend to soak in the light, and to hold cozy, user-friendly spaces inside larger gestures.,He's a triple citizen of Canada, Israel and the United States, three places where the bulk of his buildings can be found in Canada, the National Gallery in Ottawa, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the Vancouver public library. For Yad Vashem, the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem, he designed the Children's Memorial and the Memorial to the Deportees, he's also built airport terminals in Tel Aviv. In the US, he designed the elegant and understated Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Masachusetts, and the Crystal Bridges Museum in Arkansas.
George,Dyson,The story of Project Orion,Historian of science,www.dysontrust.org.uk/george-dyson.html,,The development of the Aleutian kayak, its adaptation by Russians in the 18th and 19th centuries, and his own redevelopment of the craft in the 1970s was chronicled in George Dyson’s Baidarka The Kayak of 1986. His 1997 Darwin Among the Machines The Evolution of Global Intelligence (“the last book about the Internet written without the Internet”) explored the history and prehistory of digital computing and telecommunications as a manifestation of the convergent destiny of organisms and machines.,Project Orion The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship , published in 2002, assembled first-person interviews and recently declassified documents to tell the story of a path not taken into space a nuclear-powered spaceship whose objective was to land a party of 100 people on Mars four years before we landed two people on the Moon. Turing's Cathedral The Origins of the Digital Universe , published in 2012, illuminated the transition from numbers that mean things to numbers that do things in the aftermath of World War II.
Pamelia,Kurstin,The untouchable music of the theremin,Theremin player, PameliaStickney.com,,The theremin, the first electronic instrument ever invented, was on the brink of historic oblivion when it was rescued from obscurity by director Steven Martin's classic 1994 documentary Theremin An Electronic Odyssey . And while a few brave souls have sought to master this temperamental instrument since then, none have done so with more sly effervescence than Pamelia Kurstin.,From the rock-steady composure she assumes behind the instrument (necessary lest her breathing drive the sensors out of tune), one might presume a shrinking conservatory personality, but a quick glance at the MySpace page of the self-described bird-punching rollerskating thereminist will quickly dash any of these quaint notions. Far from being a quirky curiosity, however, Kurstin is a sensitive, emotional stylist capable of coaxing sublime melodic content out of an instrument usually doomed to B-movie sci-fi soundtracks. (And her walking bass imitation is pretty cool too.)
Howard,Rheingold,The new power of collaboration,Digital community builder,rheingold.com/,,As Howard Rheingold himself puts it, I fell into the computer realm from the typewriter dimension, then plugged my computer into my telephone and got sucked into the net. A writer and designer, he was among the first wave of creative thinkers who saw, in computers and then in the Internet, a way to form powerful new communities.,His 2002 book Smart Mobs, which presaged Web 2.0 in predicting collaborative ventures like Wikipedia, was the outgrowth of decades spent studying and living life online. An early and active member of the Well (he wrote about it in The Virtual Community), he went on to cofound HotWired and Electric Minds, two groundbreaking web communities, in the mid-1990s. Now active in Second Life, he teaches, writes and consults on social networking. His latest passion teaching and workshopping participatory media literacy , to make sure we all know how to read and make the new media that we're all creating together.
Michael,Pollan,A plant's-eye view,Environmental writer,michaelpollan.com/,,Few writers approach their subjects with the rigor, passion and perspective that's typical of Michael Pollan. Whereas most humans think we are Darwin's most accomplished species, Pollan convincingly argues that plants — even our own front lawns — have evolved to use us as much as we use them. The author and New York Times Magazine contributor is, as Newsweek asserts, “an uncommonly graceful explainer of natural science,” for his investigative stories about food, agriculture, and the environment. His most recent book, The Omnivore's Dilemma , was named one of the top ten nonfiction titles of 2006. As the director of the Knight Program in Science and Environmental Journalism at UC Berkeley, Pollan is cultivating the next generation of green reporters.,“His writing—an engaging melange of travelogue, economic analysis, and sheer, tactile joy in the pleasures of food—has made him a favorite among the foodie and enviro crowds alike.” — Grist
David,Macaulay,An illustrated journey through Rome,Illustrator,hmhbooks.com/davidmacaulay/,,David Macaulay's exploratory renderings of architectural marvels throughout history have captivated children and adults alike. With crystal clear drawings and insightful text, Macaulay takes his readers inside these structures, illuminating not just the engineering prowess of the builders, but also their daily lives -- from the rulers and engineers down to the peasants hauling the bricks. Among Macaulay's many awards is a Caldecott Medal for his book Black and White . He has produced an acclaimed 5-part PBS series (and companion book) Building Big , which reveals the engineering wonders of the biggest of the big. His classic work The Way Things Work (and its new edition, The New Way Things Work ), was on the New York Times bestseller list for 50 weeks. He is an illustration instructor at his alma mater, the Rhode Island Institute of Design.,Browse this great collection of Macaulay links from a MetaFilter thread (thanks, user MonkeyToes !).
Jaime,Lerner,A song of the city,City evangelist,www.jaimelerner.com/,,For many city governments seeking visible improvements in their congested streets, the pace of change is measured in months and years. For Jaime Lerner, it's measured in hours. As mayor of Curitiba, he transformed a gridlocked commercial artery into a spacious pedestrian mall over a long weekend, before skeptical merchants had time to finish reading their Monday papers. Since then he's become a hero not only to his fellow Brazilians, but also to the growing ranks of municipal planners seeking greener, more sustainable cities. His dictum that creativity starts when you cut a zero from your budget has inspired a number of his unique solutions to urban problems, including sheltered boarding tubes to improve speed of bus transit, a garbage-for-food program allowing Curitibans to exchange bags of trash for bags of groceries, and trimming parkland grasses with herds of sheep. In addition to serving three terms as mayor of Curitiba, Lerner has twice been elected governor of Parana State in Brazil. His revolutionary career in urban planning and architecture has not only improved cities worldwide, but has also brought him international renown. Among his many awards are the United Nations Environmental Award (1990), the Child and Peace Award from UNICEF (1996), and the 2001 World Technology Award for Transportation.,
Robin,Chase,The idea behind Zipcar (and what comes next),Transport networker,www.robinchase.org/,,If she weren't a proven entrepreneur, you might imagine Robin Chase as a transportation geek, a dedicated civil servant, endlessly refining computer models of freeway traffic. If she weren't such a green-conscious problem-solver, you might take her for a startup whiz. Case in point In 2000, Chase focused her MIT business training on a car-sharing scheme imported from Europe and co-founded Zipcar , now the largest car-sharing business in the world. Using a wireless key, location awareness and Internet billing, members pick up Zipcars at myriad locations anytime they want one.,Now Chase has launched Buzzcar , a car-sharing service in France with a twist instead of a fleet of green Zipcars, the service lets users share their own cars and make money off their unused capacity. Call it peer-to-peer auto rental.
Chris,Anderson,TED's nonprofit transition,TED Curator,https//www.ted.com/about/our-organization/how-ted-works,,TED's Chris Anderson was born in a remote village in Pakistan, and spent his early years in India, Pakistan and Afghanistan, where his father worked as a missionary eye surgeon. He graduated from Oxford University with a degree in philosophy , and then trained as a journalist. After several years at newspapers and radio stations, he got hooked on the strange new home computers which had just started appearing. He became an editor at one of the UK's early computer magazines, and a year later, in 1985, formed a tiny start-up to launch his own magazine. Its unlikely success led to more launches, and his company Future Publishing grew rapidly under the moniker media with passion. Anderson expanded to the United States in 1994, where he built Imagine Media, publisher of Business 2.0 magazine, and creator of the popular games website IGN . The combined companies eventually spawned more than 100 monthly magazines, employing 2,000 people. And they allowed Anderson to create a private nonprofit foundation, the Sapling Foundation, which hoped to find new ways of tackling tough global issues by leveraging media, technology, entrepreneurship, and most of all, ideas . Sapling acquired the TED Conference in 2001, and Anderson then left his businesses to focus on growing TED. (He is not to be confused with his super-smart friend, the Chris Anderson who edits WIRED magazine and wrote The Long Tail .),“You're part of the crowd that may be about to ignite the biggest learning cycle in human history.” — Chris Anderson, from TEDTalk on Crowd-Accelerated Innovation
Alison,Jackson,An unusual glimpse at celebrity,Artist,www.alisonjackson.com/,,Recognizing the deep-seated need of the world public to see the Queen mum seated at the toilet, Elton John getting a colonic, and Keith Richards ironing his knickers, Alison Jackson set out to create the images that we really want paparazzi to capture. Armed with cheap photographic equipment, celebrity look-alikes, and a canny sense of what we think people are doing when we're not looking, she creates images that are equal parts belly laughs and pure scandal. Jackson's newest book, Alison Jackson Confidential features over 300 of her images in outrageous succession. She is also the auteur behind the popular BBC series Double Take, which focuses on the (fake) outrageous behavior of dozens of popular British political, entertainment, and sports figures. Her biggest frustration is the penchant of her doppelgangers' real life subjects to take on behavior more outrageous than her photographs.,“She fearlessly tugs away at the curtain that separates what we assume we know and what we really know about our icons and movers-and-shakers, and the result is stunning” — Sharon Steel, The Phoenix
David,Pogue,The music wars,Technology columnist,davidpogue.com,,Which cell phone to choose? What software to buy? Are camera-binoculars a necessity or novelty? As release cycles shorten and ever-shrinking gadgets hit the market with dizzying speed, it's harder and harder to know what's worth the investment. A tireless explorer of everyday technology, David Pogue investigates all the options so we don't have to.,After happily weathering installation nightmares, customer service hiccups, and an overwhelming crush of backups, upgrades and downloads, Pogue reports back with his recommendations via his many columns , TV appearances and how-to books . And he does it all with relatable insight, humor and an unsinkable sense of pun, er, fun . All that, and he sings, too.
Ben,Dunlap,The life-long learner,College president,https//www.wofford.edu/PresidentDunlap/bio/,,Ben Dunlap was a dancer for four years with the Columbia City Ballet, kicking off a life of artistic and cultural exploration . A Rhodes Scholar, he did his PhD in English literature at Harvard, and is now the president of Wofford College, a small liberal arts school in South Carolina. He has taught classes on a wide variety of subjects, from Asian history to creative writing. He's also a writer-producer for television, and his 19-part series The Renaissance has been adopted for use by more than 100 colleges. He has been a Senior Fulbright Lecturer in Thailand and a moderator at the Aspen Institute.,“Dunlap's Wikipedia entry is the stuff of legend.” — GoUpstate.comBill,Strickland,Rebuilding a neighborhood with beauty, dignity, hope,Social innovator,www.bill-strickland.org/,,Bill Strickland's journey from at-risk youth to 1996 MacArthur Genius grant recipient would be remarkable in itself, if it were not overshadowed by the staggering breadth of his vision. While moonlighting as an airline pilot, Strickland founded Manchester Bidwell, a world-class institute in his native Pittsburgh devoted to vocational instruction in partnership with big business -- and, almost incidentally, home to a Grammy-winning record label and a world-class jazz performance series. Yet its emphasis on the arts is no accident, as it embodies Strickland's conviction that an atmosphere of high culture and respect will energize even the most troubled students. With job placement rates that rival most universities, Manchester Bidwell's success has attracted the attention of everyone from George Bush, Sr. (who appointed Strickland to a six-year term on the board of the NEA) to Fred Rogers (who invited Strickland to demonstrate pot throwing on Mister Rogers' Neighborhood ). In 2010, President Obama appointed Strickland to the White House Council for Community Solutions, which oversees volunteering and community service on a local and national level. And though cumbersome slide trays have been replaced by PowerPoint, the inspirational power of his speeches and slide shows are the stuff of lecture circuit legend.,“With his potter's hands, Bill Strickland is reshaping the business of social change. His Pittsburgh-based program offers a national model for education, training and hope.” — Fast Company
Raul,Midon,Tembererana,Guitarist,www.raulmidon.com/,,Raul Midon is into beating the odds, shattering stereotypes, and making category-defying music. I was told as a child, 'You're blind, you can't do this,' Midon told an interviewer in 2005. I was told when I moved to New York, 'You can't do that, you're not going to make it.' At 40, however, Midon has clearly made it.,After singing backup vocals for stars like Shakira, Julio Iglesias, Jennifer Lopez and Christina Aguilera, Midon released his major-label solo debut, State of Mind , with help from guest artist Jason Mraz. Midon's innovative songwriting incorporates his lyrics, guitar handiwork (jazz, classical, flamenco, R&B) and vocal trumpet improvisation. Though he draws comparisons to Stevie Wonder, Donny Hathaway and Richie Havens, Midon is the rare original in an industry of few.
Frank,Gehry,A master architect asks, Now what?,Architect,https//www.foga.com/,,Frank Gehry is one of the world's most influential architects. His designs for the likes of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in LA are bold statements that have imposed a new aesthetic of architecture on the world at large, enlivening streetscapes and creating new destinations. Gehry has extended his vision beyond brick-and-mortar too, collaborating with artists such as Claes Oldenberg and Richard Serra, and designing watches, teapots and a line of jewelry for Tiffany & Co.,Now in his 80s, Gehry refuses to slow down or compromise his fierce vision  He and his team at Gehry Partners are working on a $4 billion development of the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, and a spectacular Guggenheim museum in Abu Dhabi , United Arab Emirates, which interprets local architecture traditions into a language all his own. Incorporating local architectural motifs without simply paying lip service to Middle Eastern culture, the building bears all the hallmarks of a classic Gehry design.
Paola,Antonelli,Treat design as art,Design curator,www.moma.org,,Since she stepped back from practicing architecture in order to focus on writing about design, teaching and curating gallery exhibitions, Italian native Paola Antonelli has become a force to be reckoned with in the design world. Working at the Museum of Modern Art in New York since 1994, she is senior curator of the gallery's Architecture and Design department and, as of 2012, the museum's first ever director of research and development. Antonelli has worked on shows such as  Humble Masterpieces , which celebrated traditionally unheralded design icons such as the paperclip,  Design and the Elastic Mind , considering the relationship of design and technology, and  Talk to Me , which looked at design and the communication of people and objects.,Ever mindful that the majority of visitors to MOMA are attracted by artists such as Picasso and Matisse, Antonelli works to ensure that if they do stumble across a design-related show, they'll be both entertained and enlightened. In 2012, she led a move to acquire 14 video games for the museum's permanent collection.
David,Gallo,Underwater astonishments,Oceanographer,davidgallo.com/,,David Gallo works to push the bounds of oceanic discovery. Active in undersea exploration (sometimes in partnership with legendary Titanic -hunter Robert Ballard), he was one of the first oceanographers to use a combination of manned submersibles and robots to map the ocean world with unprecedented clarity and detail. He was a co-expedition leader during an exploration of the RMS Titanic and the German battleship Bismarck, using Russian Mir subs.,On behalf of the Woods Hole labs, he appears around the country speaking on ocean and water issues. Most recently he co-led an expedition to create the first detailed and comprehensive map of the RMS Titanic and he co-led the successful international effort to locate the wreck site of Air France flight 447. He is involved in planning an international Antarctic expedition to locate and document the wreckage of Ernest Shackleton’s ship, HMS Endurance.
J.J.,Abrams,The mystery box,Filmmaker,www.imdb.com/name/nm0009190/,,As the Emmy-winning creator of the smart, addictive TV dramas Lost, Alias and Felicity , J.J. Abrams' name looms large on the small screen. As the writer/director behind the blockbuster explode-a-thon Mission Impossible III , Cloverfield and the new Star Trek movie, these days Abrams also rules the big screen -- bringing his eye for telling detail and emotional connection to larger-than-life stories. Abrams' enthusiasm -- for the construction of Kleenex boxes, for the quiet moments between shark attacks in Jaws , for today's filmmaking technologies, and above all for the potent mystery of an unopened package -- is incredibly infectious.,“As a boy, JJ Abrams was fascinated with magic. As a television writer, director, and producer, he has beguiled audiences with a masterful use of suspense, plot reversals, and special effects.” — Wired
Deborah,Gordon,The emergent genius of ant colonies,Ecologist,www.deborahgordonlaw.com/,,Ecologist Deborah M. Gordon has learned that ant colonies can work without central control by using simple interactions like how often the insects touch antennae. Contrary to the notion that colonies are organized by efficient ants, she has instead discovered that evolution has produced “noisy” systems that tolerate accident and respond flexibly to the environment. When conditions are tough, natural selection favors colonies that conserve resources.,Her studies of ant colonies have led her and her Stanford colleagues to the discovery of the “Anternet,” which regulates foraging in ants in the same way the internet regulates data traffic. But as she said to Wired in 2013, Insect behavior mimicking human networks ... is actually not what’s most interesting about ant networks. What’s far more interesting are the parallels in the other direction What have the ants worked out that we humans haven’t thought of yet? Her latest exploration How do ants behave in space ?
Yossi,Vardi,We're worried about local warming ... in your lap,Investor,edge.org,,Joseph Yossi Vardi has helped more than 40 startups see the light of day, among them Mirabilis (makers of ICQ ) and the video companies Scopus and BrightCove . He's a strategic advisor to Amazon and AOL, and a venture partner of Pitango , one of Israel's largest VC funds. He's a lively presence in the world of tech startups, with an absurd sense of humor and a refreshing set of values (restated in a much-commented-on TechCrunch post in October) that drive his approach to new investments. The takeaways Judge the individual over the business plan , and don't shy away from an entrepreneur who has failed before It makes them want to win even more, he said.,“One way to get to know Yossi is through his portfolio. Here´s a list of the companies he´s invested with they include Ilcu, Foxytunes, Gteko, recently sold to Microsoft, Fixya, a very clever customer support web 2.0 site, AtlasCT, a competitor to Google Maps, and Fring, competitor to Gizmo Project or Truphone.” — martinvarsavsky.net
Isabel,Allende,Tales of passion,Novelist,IsabelAllende.com,,As a novelist and memoirist, Isabel Allende writes of passionate lives, including her own. Born into a Chilean family with political ties, she went into exile in the United States in the 1970s—an event that, she believes, created her as a writer. Her voice blends sweeping narrative with touches of magical realism, her stories are romantic, in the very best sense of the word. Her novels include The House of the Spirits , Eva Luna and The Stories of Eva Luna , and her latest, Maya's Notebook and Ripper . And don't forget her adventure trilogy for young readers— City of the Beasts , Kingdom of the Golden Dragon and Forest of the Pygmies .,As a memoirist, she has written about her vision of her lost Chile, in My Invented Country , and movingly tells the story of her life to her own daughter, in Paula . Her book Aphrodite A Memoir of the Senses memorably linked two sections of the bookstore that don't see much crossover Erotica and Cookbooks. Just as vital is her community work The Isabel Allende Foundation works with nonprofits in the San Francisco Bay Area and Chile to empower and protect women and girls—understanding that empowering women is the only true route to social and economic justice.
Gever,Tulley,5 dangerous things you should let your kids do,Tinkerer,www.tinkeringschool.com,,Gever Tulley writes the best Twitters  Just landed my paraglider in an empty field behind Santa 8arbara. ... Making amazing tshirts with a laser cutter at the maker faire in austin. ... Washing fruit, putting sheets on bunkbeds, and grinding up aluminum foil in a cheap blender ... Updating the school blog, trying to figure out how many cubic feet of air are in a 5 gallon cylinder at 200 PSI. ... Trying to figure out if the tinker kids are going to be able to get molten iron from magnetite sand ...,A software engineer, Gever Tulley is the co-founder of the Tinkering School, a weeklong camp where lucky kids get to play with their very own power tools. He's interested in helping kids learn how to build, solve problems, use new materials and hack old ones for new purposes. He's also a certified paragliding instructor.
Lakshmi,Pratury,The lost art of letter-writing,Connector,www.inktalks.com/people/lakshmi,,After two decades in marketing, venture capitalism and social entreprenuership, Lakshmi Pratury turned her focus toward linking her home country of India more tightly with the American community. Her firm, Ixoraa Media, runs meetings and events to spark dialogue and make connections. In 2009, she co-hosted TEDIndia and saw such a warm response to the conference that she founded The INK Conference , in partnership with TED, that would pick up where TEDIndia left off. Watch the INKTalks channel to see some of the brilliant ideas shared at the INK Conference. Pratury blogs at Lakshmi's Lounge .,She worked at Intel for 12 years as a marketer and evangelist, then moved to a VC firm, Global Capitalist Partners. At GCP, she focused on connecting India's legendary software-development community with US tech. She began to focus more strictly on relationship-building with her move to the America India Foundation, where she founded the AIF's Digital Equalizer program, offering technology education to some 80,000 children and 2,000 teachers in India. She also launched the AIF Summit for social entrepreneurs from India.
Daniel,Goleman,Why aren't we more compassionate?,Psychologist,www.danielgoleman.info/,,Daniel Goleman brought the notion of EI to prominence as an alternative to more traditional measures of IQ with his 1995 mega-best-seller Emotional Intelligence . Since the publication of that book, conferences and academic institutes have sprung up dedicated to the idea. EI is taught in public schools, and corporate leaders have adopted it as a new way of thinking about success and leadership. EI, and one's EIQ, can be an explanation of why some average people are incredibly successful, while geniuses sometimes fail to live up to their promise.,“Emotional Intelligence, Goleman's highly readable and wide-ranging exploration of the best research available by modern psychologists and educators, provides important insights into the true meaning of intelligence and the qualities it encompasses.” — David Perlman, San Francisco Chronicle
Arthur,Benjamin,A performance of Mathemagic,Mathemagician,www.benjaminmath.com/,,Arthur Benjamin makes numbers dance. In his day job, he's a professor of math at Harvey Mudd College, in his other day job, he's a Mathemagician, taking the stage in his tuxedo to perform high-speed mental calculations, memorizations and other astounding math stunts. It's part of his drive to teach math and mental agility in interesting ways, following in the footsteps of such heroes as Martin Gardner .,Benjamin is the co-author, with Michael Shermer , of Secrets of Mental Math (which shares his secrets for rapid mental calculation), as well as the co-author of the MAA award-winning Proofs That Really Count The Art of Combinatorial Proof . For a glimpse of his broad approach to math, see the list of research talks on his website, which seesaws between high-level math (such as his Vandermonde's Determinant and Fibonacci SAWs, presented at MIT in 2004) and engaging math talks for the rest of us (An Amazing Mathematical Card Trick).
Amory,Lovins,Winning the oil endgame,Physicist, energy guru,www.rmi.org ,,Amory Lovins was worried (and writing) about energy long before global warming was making the front -- or even back -- page of newspapers. Since studying at Harvard and Oxford in the 1960s, he's written dozens of books, and initiated ambitious projects -- cofounding the influential, environment-focused Rocky Mountain Institute , prototyping the ultra-efficient Hypercar -- to focus the world's attention on alternative approaches to energy and transportation.,His critical thinking has driven people around the globe -- from world leaders to the average Joe -- to think differently about energy and its role in some of our biggest problems  climate change, oil dependency, national security, economic health, and depletion of natural resources.
Murray,Gell-Mann,Beauty, truth and ... physics?,Physicist,https//www.pma.caltech.edu/.../murra,,He's been called the man with five brains -- and Murray Gell-Mann has the resume to prove it. In addition to being a Nobel laureate, he is an accomplished physicist who's earned numerous awards, medals and honorary degrees for his work with subatomic particles, including the groundbreaking theory that the nucleus of an atom comprises 100 or so fundamental building blocks called quarks .,Gell-Mann's influence extends well beyond his field He's a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Council on Foreign Relations. He also serves on the board of the Wildlife Conservation Society and is a director of Encyclopedia Britannica. Gell-Mann, a professor emeritus of Caltech, now heads the evolution of human languages program at the Santa Fe Institute , which he cofounded in 1984.
Philippe,Starck,Design and destiny,Designer,www.starck.com/,,Philippe Starck is a legend of modern design. He's known for his luxurious hotels and boites around the world -- notably the Peninsula Hotel restaurant in Hong Kong, the Teatron in Mexico, the Hotel Delano in Miami, the Mondrian in Los Angeles, the Asia de Cuba restaurant in New York -- designing the total environment from layout to furniture to linens.,But he has made perhaps his most permanent mark on design through his bold reworkings of everyday objects . In reimagining and rethinking the quotidian, he has produced some of the iconic shapes of the 20th century, including his leggy chrome juice squeezer , the reimagined Emeco aluminum chairs , and the witty Louis Ghost polycarbonate fauteuil.
Ron,Eglash,The fractals at the heart of African designs,Mathematician,ww.rpi.edu/~eglash/eglash.htm,,Ethno-mathematician Ron Eglash is the author of African Fractals , a book that examines the fractal patterns underpinning architecture, art and design in many parts of Africa. By looking at aerial-view photos -- and then following up with detailed research on the ground -- Eglash discovered that many African villages are purposely laid out to form perfect fractals , with self-similar shapes repeated in the rooms of the house, and the house itself, and the clusters of houses in the village, in mathematically predictable patterns. As he puts it When Europeans first came to Africa, they considered the architecture very disorganized and thus primitive. It never occurred to them that the Africans might have been using a form of mathematics that they hadn't even discovered yet . His other areas of study are equally fascinating, including research into African and Native American cybernetics, teaching kids math through culturally specific design tools (such as the Virtual Breakdancer applet, which explores rotation and sine functions), and race and ethnicity issues in science and technology . Eglash teaches in the Department of Science and Technology Studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York, and he recently co-edited the book Appropriating Technology , about how we reinvent consumer tech for our own uses.,
Robert,Full,The sticky wonder of gecko feet,Biologist,polypedal.berkeley.edu,,UC Berkeley biologist Robert Full is fascinated by the motion of creatures like cockroaches, crabs and geckos having many legs, unusual feet or talented tails. He has led an effort to demonstrate the value of learning from Nature by the creating interdisciplinary collaborations of biologists, engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists from academia and industry. He founded CiBER , the Center for interdisciplinary Bio-inspiration in Education and Research, and the Poly-PEDAL Laboratory , which studies the Performance, Energetics and Dynamics of Animal Locomotion (PEDAL) in many-footed creatures (Poly).,His research shows how studying a diversity of animals leads to the discovery of general principles which inspire the design of novel circuits, artificial muscles, exoskeletons, versatile scampering legged search-and-rescue robots and synthetic self-cleaning dry adhesives based on gecko feet. He is passionate about discovery-based education leading to innovation -- and he even helped Pixar’s insect animations in the film A Bug's Life.
Larry,Brilliant,The case for optimism,Epidemiologist, philanthropist,ww.seva.org/site/PageServer?pagename..,,Larry Brilliant's career path, as unlikely as it is inspirational, has proven worthy of his surname. Trained as a doctor, he was living in a Himalayan monastery in the early 1970s when his guru told him he should help rid the world of smallpox . He joined the World Health Organization's eradication project, directed efforts to eliminate the disease in India and eventually presided over the last case of smallpox on the planet.,Not content with beating a single disease, he founded the nonprofit Seva Foundation , which has cured more than two million people of blindness in 15 countries (through innovative surgery, self-sufficient eye care systems, and low-cost manufacturing of intraocular lenses). Outside the medical field, he found time to cofound the legendary online community The Well, and run two public technology companies. Time and WIRED magazines call him a technology visionary.
Juan,Enriquez,Using biology to rethink the energy challenge,Futurist, excelvm.com,,A broad thinker who studies the intersection of science, business and society, Juan Enriquez has a talent for bridging disciplines to build a coherent look ahead. Enriquez was the founding director of the Harvard Business School Life Sciences Project , and has published widely on topics from the technical (global nucleotide data flow) to the sociological (gene research and national competitiveness), and was a member of Celera Genomics founder Craig Venter 's marine-based team to collect genetic data from the world's oceans.,Formerly CEO of Mexico City's Urban Development Corporation and chief of staff for Mexico's secretary of state, Enriquez played a role in reforming Mexico's domestic policy and helped negotiate a cease-fire with Zapatista rebels. He is a Managing Director at Excel Medical Ventures , a life sciences venture capital firm, and the chair and CEO of Biotechonomy , a research and investment firm helping to fund new genomics firms. The Untied States of America looks at the forces threatening America's future as a unified country.
David,Keith,A critical look at geoengineering against climate change,Environmental scientist,www.keith.seas,,Environmental scientist David Keith works at the intersection of climate science, way-new energy, and public power. His research has taken him into some far-out realms of geoengineering -- dramatic, cheap, sometimes shocking solutions to a warming atmosphere , such as blowing a Mt. Pinatubo-size cloud of sulfur into the sky to bring the global temperature down.,His other areas of study include the capture and storage of CO2 , the economics and climatic impacts of large-scale wind power , and the use of hydrogen as a transportation fuel. Another interest How we make decisions when we don't have reliable scholarly data.
Paul,Rothemund,Playing with DNA that self-assembles,DNA origamist,www.dna.caltech.edu/,,Paul Rothemund won a MacArthur grant this year for a fairly mystifying study area folding DNA. It brings up the question Why fold DNA? The answer is -- because the power to manipulate DNA in this way could change the way we make things at a very basic level.,Rothemund's work combines the study of self-assembly (watch the TEDTalks from Neil Gershenfeld and Saul Griffith for more on this) with the research being done in DNA nanotechnology -- and points the way toward self-assembling devices at microscale, making computer memory, for instance, smaller, faster and maybe even cheaper.
Lawrence,Lessig,Laws that choke creativity,Legal activist, rootstrikers.org,,Lawyer and activist Lawrence Lessig spent a decade arguing for sensible intellectual property law, updated for the digital age. He was a founding board member of Creative Commons , an organization that builds better copyright practices through principles established first by the open-source software community.,In 2007, just after his last TED Talk , Lessig announced he was leaving the field of IP and Internet policy, and moving on to a more fundamental problem that blocks all types of sensible policy -- the corrupting influence of money in American politics.
Matthieu,Ricard,The habits of happiness,Monk, author, photographer,www.matthieuricard.org/en/,,After training in biochemistry at the Institute Pasteur, Matthieu Ricard left science behind to move to the Himalayas and become a Buddhist monk -- and to pursue happiness, both at a basic human level and as a subject of inquiry . Achieving happiness, he has come to believe, requires the same kind of effort and mind training that any other serious pursuit involves. His deep and scientifically tinged reflections on happiness and Buddhism have turned into several books, including The Quantum and the Lotus A Journey to the Frontiers Where Science and Buddhism Meet . At the same time, he also makes sensitive and jaw-droppingly gorgeous photographs of his beloved Tibet and the spiritual hermitage where he lives and works on humanitarian projects . His latest book on happiness is Happiness A Guide to Developing Life's Most Important Skill , his latest book of photographs is Tibet An Inner Journey .,“Matthieu Ricard, French translator and right-hand man for the Dalai Lama, has been the subject of intensive clinical tests at the University of Wisconsin, as a result of which he is frequently described as the happiest man in the world.” — Robert Chalmers, The Independent
Sherwin,Nuland,How electroshock therapy changed me,Doctor,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sherwin_B._Nuland,,Sherwin Nuland was a practicing surgeon for 30 years and treated more than 10,000 patients -- then became an author and speaker on topics no smaller than life and death, our minds, our morality, aging and the human spirit.,His 1994 book How We Die Reflections of Life's Final Chapter demythologizes the process of dying. Through stories of real patients and his own family, he examines the seven most common causes of death old age, cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer's, accidents, heart disease and stroke, and their effects. The book, one of more than a dozen he wrote, won the National Book Award, was a finalist for the Pultizer Prize, and spent 34 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list. Other books include How We Live , The Art of Aging A Doctor's Prescription for Well-Being , and The Soul of Medicine Tales from the Bedside .
Eleni,Gabre-Madhin,A commodities exchange for Ethiopia,Economist,eleniexchanges.com/,,Economist Eleni Gabre-Madhin has ambitious vision -- to found the first commodities market in Ethiopia, bringing rates and standards (not to mention trading systems, warehousing and data centers ) to the trade of crops.,Gabre-Madhin left her earlier job, as a World Bank senior economist in Washington, DC, in part because she was disturbed by the 2002 famine in Ethiopia -- after a bumper crop of maize the year before. With prices depressed, many farmers simply left their grain in the field in 2001. But when the rains failed in 2002, a famine of 1984 proportions threatened the country. Her dream to build a market that protects the African farmer, who is too often living at the mercy of forces beyond his or her control.
VS,Ramachandran,3 clues to understanding your brain,Brain expert,cbc.ucsd.edu/ramabio.html,,V.S. Ramachandran is a mesmerizing speaker, able to concretely and simply describe the most complicated inner workings of the brain. His investigations into phantom limb pain, synesthesia and other brain disorders allow him to explore (and begin to answer) the most basic philosophical questions about the nature of self and human consciousness.,Ramachandran is the director of the Center for Brain and Cognition at the University of California, San Diego, and an adjunct professor at the Salk Institute. He is the author of Phantoms in the Brain (the basis for a Nova special), A Brief Tour of Human Consciousness and The Man with the Phantom Twin Adventures in the Neuroscience of the Human Brain .
Jan,Chipchase,The anthropology of mobile phones,User anthropologist,janchipchase.com/,,Jan Chipcase can guess what's inside your bag and knows all about the secret contents of your refrigerator. It isn't a second sight or a carnival trick, he knows about the ways we think and act because he's spent years studying our behavioral patterns . He's traveled from country to country to learn everything he can about what makes us tick, from our relationship to our phones (hint it's deep, and it's real) to where we stow our keys each night. He oversees the creative direction of frog design , an innovation firm that advises the design products for Microsoft Office, Nike, UNICEF, GE, Sephora, Gatorade and Alitalia.,Before moving to frog design, Jan's discoveries and insights helped to inspire the development of the next generations of phones and services at Nokia . As he put it, if he does his job right, you should be seeing the results of his research hitting the streets and airwaves within the next 3 to 15 years.
Maira,Kalman,The illustrated woman,Illustrator, author,www.mairakalman.com/,,Children know Maira Kalman for her series of Max storybooks, adults for her New Yorker covers and the gotta-have-it illustrated version of the Elements of Style -- simple proof that her sensibility blends a childlike delight with a grownup's wry take on the world .,With her husband, the legendary designer and art director Tibor Kalman , Maira spent several decades designing objets and assembling books like (un)FASHION . But after Tibor's untimely death in 1999, Maira herself became a cultural force. Her colorful, faux-naif illustrations -- and her very perspective -- tap a desire in all of us to look at the world the way she does.
Hod,Lipson,Building self-aware robots,Roboticist,lipson.mae.cornell.edu/,,To say that Hod Lipson and his team at Cornell build robots is not completely accurate They may simply set out a pile of virtual robot parts, devise some rules for assembly, and see what the parts build themselves into. They've created robots that decide for themselves how they want to walk, robots that develop a sense of what they look like , even robots that can, through trial and error, construct other robots just like themselves.,Working across disciplines -- physics, computer science, math, biology and several flavors of engineer -- the team studies techniques for self-assembly and evolution that have great implications for fields such as micro-manufacturing -- allowing tiny pieces to assemble themselves at scales heretofore impossible -- and extreme custom manufacturing (in other words, 3-D printers for the home).
Richard,Branson,Life at 30,000 feet,Entrepreneur,www.virgin.com/richard-branson,,He's ballooned across the Atlantic, floated down the Thames with the Sex Pistols , and been knighted by the Queen. His megabrand, Virgin , is home to more than 250 companies, from gyms, gambling houses and bridal boutiques to fleets of planes, trains and limousines. The man even owns his own island.,And now Richard Branson is moving onward and upward into space (tourism) Virgin Galactic's Philippe Starck-designed, The first Burt Rutan-engineered spacecraft, The Enterprise, completed its first captive carry in early 2010 and is slated to start carrying passengers into the thermosphere in 2012 , at $200,000 a ticket.
Kenichi,Ebina,My magic moves,Dancer,www.ebinaperformingarts.com/,,A self-taught dancer combining freestyle hip-hop with mime and contemporary dance, Kenichi Ebina incorporates visual illusion into his performances, making the impossible seem real. His agile, athletic and razor-sharp moves push the limits of human capability. Each of his performances is a mini-drama that draws from kinetic and thematic inspiration to tell a story that is laugh-out-loud funny.,Ebina is the founder of BiTriP (Bi-Triangle Performance), a hip-hop dance troupe that won the famous Amateur Night at the Apollo , later, as a solo performer, Kenichi again carried off the Apollo crown. He's a dancer, choreographer, teacher and performer, working with collaborators or on his own as Ebina Performing Arts.
Carolyn,Porco,This is Saturn,Planetary scientist,carolynporco.com/,,Planetary scientist Carolyn Porco studies and interprets the photos from the Cassini-Huygens mission, orbiting Saturn and its largest moon, Titan. She and a team of scientists from NASA and the European Space Agency have been analyzing the images that Cassini has been sending back since it left Earth in 1999. They've found many new rings and four new moons (so far). And they've produced breathtaking images and animations of the stormy face of Saturn , its busy rings, and its jumble of moons and moonlets.,Back in the mid-1980s, while still working on her doctorate, Porco was drafted onto a team at JPL that was crunching the mountains of data coming back from the Voyager fly-by of Saturn. Her work on the planet's ringlets, and on a spoke pattern noticed in the rings, made an important connection between Saturn's rings and its magnetic field -- and cemented her connection with Saturn.
Paul,MacCready,A flight on solar wings,Engineer,ttps//www.avinc.com/about/dr_maccready,,Through his life, Paul MacCready turned his mind, energy and heart toward his two passions flight and the Earth. His early training as a fighter and glider pilot (glider pilots still use the MacCready speed ring he developed after World War II) led him to explore nontraditional flight and nontraditional energy sources .,In the 1970s, he and his company, AeroVironment, designed and built two record-breaking human-powered planes  the Gossamer Condor , the first human-powered aircraft to complete a one-mile course set by the Kremer Prize , and the Gossamer Albatross , the first to cross the English Channel. The planes' avian names reveal the deep insight that MacCready brought to the challenge -- that large birds, in their wing shape and flying style, possess an elegant secret of flight.
Stephen,Petranek,10 ways the world could end,Technology forecaster,https//www.ted.com/speakers/stephen_petranek,,“Award-winning journalist Stephen Petranek says humans will live on Mars by 2034. Now he makes the case that living on Mars is not just plausible, but inevitable.” — Simon & Schuster,
John,Maeda,Designing for simplicity,Artist, our.risd.edu,,When John Maeda became president of the legendary Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) in 2008, he told the Wall Street Journal , Everyone asks me, 'Are you bringing technology to RISD?' I tell them, no, I'm bringing RISD to technology.,In his fascinating career as a programmer and an artist, he's always been committed to blurring the lines between the two disciplines. As a student at MIT, studying computer programming, the legendary Muriel Cooper persuaded him to follow his parallel passion for fine art and design. And when computer-aided design began to explode in the mid-1990s, Maeda was in a perfect position at the MIT Media Lab to influence and shape the form, helping typographers and page designers explore the freedom of the web.
Zeresenay,Alemseged,The search for humanity's roots,Paleoanthropologist,www.calacademy.org/.../zeray-alemsege..,,Paleoanthropologist Zeresenay Alemseged studies the origins of humanity. Through his Dikika Research Project (DRP) in the Afar desert of Ethiopia, he has discovered the earliest known skeleton of a hominid child , the 3.3-million-year-old bones of Selam, a 3-year-old girl of the species Australopithecus afarensis. She is a member of the same species as Lucy, discovered nearby in 1974.,In studying Selam's tiny bones, Alemseged is searching for the points at which we humans diverged from apes . For instance, Selam may have had ape-like shoulders, made for climbing trees -- but her legs were angled for walking upright. Her young brain, at age 3, was still growing, which implies that she was set to have a long human-style childhood. And in the hyoid bone of her throat, Alemseged sees the beginning of human speech .
Deborah,Scranton,An Iraq war movie crowd-sourced from soldiers,Filmmaker,www.deborahscranton.com/,,Filmmaker Deborah Scranton helps real people tell compelling, honest stories . Her 2006 documentary The War Tapes put cameras in the hands of National Guard troops stationed in Camp Anaconda, in Iraq. Through their raw footage and diaries, they brought home a truth that we at home would never otherwise know about what one soldier calls the war for cheese.,Scranton has also created the TV documentary Stories from Silence, Witness to War, which tells the stories of World War II veterans in living New Hampshire. Her latest film appeared at the 2010 Tribeca film festival. Entitled Earth Made of Glass , the film examines the consequences of the Rwandan genocide on the personal and political level 15 years later. She's currently working on a nonfiction feature film that will, in her words,  tell the US-Mexico immigration and border story from the inside out -- putting cameras in the hands of the Border Patrol ... ranchers who live on the land being crossed, humanitarians who leave water in the desert trying to save lives, coyotes ...
Steven,Pinker,The surprising decline in violence,Linguist, stevenpinker.com,,Steven Pinker's books have been like bombs tossed into the eternal nature-versus-nurture debate. Pinker asserts that not only are human minds predisposed to certain kinds of learning, such as language, but that from birth our minds -- the patterns in which our brain cells fire -- predispose us each to think and behave differently.,His deep studies of language have led him to insights into the way that humans form thoughts and engage our world. He argues that humans have evolved to share a faculty for language, the same way a spider evolved to spin a web. We aren't born with “blank slates” to be shaped entirely by our parents and environment, he argues in books including The Language Instinct , How the Mind Works , and The Blank Slate The Modern Denial of Human Nature .
Steven,Pinker,What our language habits reveal,Linguist, stevenpinker.com,,Steven Pinker's books have been like bombs tossed into the eternal nature-versus-nurture debate. Pinker asserts that not only are human minds predisposed to certain kinds of learning, such as language, but that from birth our minds -- the patterns in which our brain cells fire -- predispose us each to think and behave differently.,His deep studies of language have led him to insights into the way that humans form thoughts and engage our world. He argues that humans have evolved to share a faculty for language, the same way a spider evolved to spin a web. We aren't born with “blank slates” to be shaped entirely by our parents and environment, he argues in books including The Language Instinct , How the Mind Works , and The Blank Slate The Modern Denial of Human Nature .
Theo,Jansen,My creations, a new form of life,Artist,www.strandbeest.com,,Dutch artist Theo Jansen has been working for 16 years to create sculptures that move on their own in eerily lifelike ways. Each generation of his  Strandbeests  is subject to the forces of evolution , with successful forms moving forward into new designs. Jansen's vision and long-term commitment to his wooden menagerie is as fascinating to observe as the beasts themselves. His newest creatures walk without assistance on the beaches of Holland, powered by wind, captured by gossamer wings that flap and pump air into old lemonade bottles that in turn power the creatures' many plastic spindly legs. The walking sculptures look alive as they move , each leg articulating in such a way that the body is steady and level. They even incorporate primitive logic gates that are used to reverse the machine's direction if it senses dangerous water or loose sand where it might get stuck.,“A self-styled god, Jansen is evolving an entirely new line of animals immense multi-legged walking critters designed to roam the Dutch coastline, feeding on gusts of wind.” — Wired News
Andrew,Mwenda,Aid for Africa? No thanks.,Journalist,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Mwenda,,Andrew Mwenda is a print, radio and television journalist, and an active critic of many forms of Western aid to Africa . Too much of the aid from rich nations, he says, goes to the worst African countries to fuel war and government abuse. Such money not only never gets to its intended recipients, Africa's truly needy -- it actively plays a part in making their lives worse. Mwenda worked at the Daily Monitor newspaper in Kampala starting in the mid-1990s, and hosted a radio show, Andrew Mwenda Live , since 2001, in 2005, he was charged with sedition by the Ugandan government for criticizing the president of Uganda on his radio show , in the wake of the helicopter crash that killed the vice president of Sudan. He has produced documentaries and commentary for the BBC on the dangers of aid and debt relief to Africa, and consulted for the World Bank and Transparency international, and was a Knight Fellow at Stanford in 2007.,In December 2007, he launched a new newspaper in Kampala, The Independent , a leading source of uncensored news in the country. The following spring, he was arrested and accused of publishing inflammatory articles about the Ugandan government. Since being released, he has gone on to be recognized by the World Economic Forum as a Young Global Leader and to win the CPJ International Press Freedom Award.
Erin,McKean,The joy of lexicography,Dictionary editor,erinmckean.com/,,Erin McKean's job as a lexicographer involves living in a constant state of research. She searches high and low -- from books to blogs, newspapers to cocktail parties -- for new words, new meanings for old words, or signs that old words have fallen out of use. In June of this year, she involved us all in the search by launching Wordnik , an online dictionary that houses all the traditionally accepted words and definitions, but also asks users to contribute new words and new uses for old words. Wordnik pulls real-time examples of word usage from Twitter, image representations from Flickr along with many more non-traditional, and highly useful, features.,Before Wordnik, McKean was one of the youngest editors of the New Oxford American Dictionary . She continues to serve as the editor of the language quarterly Verbatim (language and linguistics for the layperson since 1974) and is the author of multiple books, including That's Amore and the entire Weird and Wonderful Words series. All that, and she maintains multiple blogs, too McKean is the keen observationalist behind A Dress a Day and Dictionary Evangelist . Is there anything she can't do? Surprisingly, she is notoriously bad at Scrabble.
Dean,Kamen,Luke, a new prosthetic arm for soldiers,Inventor,www.dekaresearch.com/founder.shtml,,Dean Kamen is an innovator, but not just of things. He hopes to revolutionize attitudes, quality of life, awareness. While an undergraduate, he developed the first portable infusion device, which delivers drug treatments that once required round-the-clock hospital care. And, through his DEKA Research and Development , which he cofounded in 1982, he developed a portable dialysis machine, a vascular stent, and the iBOT -- a motorized wheelchair that climbs stairs (Stephen Colbert took one for a spin).,Yes, he's a college dropout, but he's a huge believer in education, and in 1989 established the nonprofit FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) to inspire teenagers to pursue careers in science. FIRST sponsors lively annual competitions, where students form teams to create the best robot.
Jeff,Skoll,My journey into movies that matter,Producer,Participate.net,,Jeff Skoll was eBay's employee number 2 and president number 1. He left with a comfortable fortune and a desire to spend his money helping others . The Skoll Foundation , established in 1999, invests in, connects and celebrates social entrepreneurs -- offering grants to people who build businesses, schools and services for communities in need. Every year, it presents the Skoll World Forum on Social Entrepreneurship at Oxford, and runs Social Edge , a networking site for social entrepreneurs. His production company, Participant Productions , is what Skoll calls a pro-social media company, making features and documentaries that address social and political issues and drive real change. His film North Country, for example, is credited with influencing the signing of the 2005 Violence Against Women Act. Participant's blockbuster doc, An Inconvenient Truth, is required viewing in classrooms around the world, and has unquestionably changed the debate around climate change . Other Participant films include The Kite Runner, The Visitor, Food Inc., The Cove, and the recent Earth Day release, Oceans.,“He tells me film can change the world. He tells me you can build companies based on trust. He speaks softly.” — Stephen Gaghan in Time
Vusi,Mahlasela,Woza,Musician, activist,vusimahlasela.com/,,Vusi Mahlasela has dedicated his life to using music and words to inspire change. As a young boy in South Africa, he was routinely watched by the police because of his anti-apartheid poetry and his open support of student protest. During the final fight against apartheid, his songs of protest and solidarity became anthems -- stirring the South African people to create their new nation.,His lyrics touch on themes of love, family, hope and pride. Working with his own band and an international crew of genre-bending musicians, including Ladysmith Black Mambazo and fellow South African Dave Matthews, Mahlasela crafts a rich, propulsive sound that helps his words reach directly into the heart.
Vusi,Mahlasela,Thula Mama,Musician, activist,vusimahlasela.com/,,Vusi Mahlasela has dedicated his life to using music and words to inspire change. As a young boy in South Africa, he was routinely watched by the police because of his anti-apartheid poetry and his open support of student protest. During the final fight against apartheid, his songs of protest and solidarity became anthems -- stirring the South African people to create their new nation.,His lyrics touch on themes of love, family, hope and pride. Working with his own band and an international crew of genre-bending musicians, including Ladysmith Black Mambazo and fellow South African Dave Matthews, Mahlasela crafts a rich, propulsive sound that helps his words reach directly into the heart.
Jacqueline,Novogratz,Patient capitalism,Social entrepreneur,acumen.org/people/board/jacqueline-novogratz/,,One of the most innovative players shaping philanthropy today, Jacqueline Novogratz is redefining the way problems of poverty can be solved around the world. Drawing on her past experience in banking, microfinance and traditional philanthropy, Novogratz has become a leading proponent for financing entrepreneurs and enterprises that can bring affordable clean water, housing and healthcare, energy, agriculture and education to poor people so that they no longer have to depend on the disappointing results and lack of accountability seen in traditional charity and old-fashioned aid .,Acumen , which she founded in 2001, has an ambitious plan to change the way the world tackles poverty . Indeed, Acumen has more in common with a venture capital fund than a typical nonprofit. Rather than handing out grants, Acumen invests in early stage companies and organizations that bring critical -- often life-altering -- products and services to the world's poor. Like VCs, Acumen offers not just money, but also infrastructure and management expertise. From drip-irrigation systems in India to high quality solar lighting solutions in East Africa to a low-cost mortgage program in Pakistan, Acumen's portfolio offers important case studies for entrepreneurial efforts aimed at the vastly underserved market of those making less than $4/day.
Chris,Abani,Telling stories from Africa,Novelist, poet,www.chrisabani.com/,,Chris Abani's first novel, published when he was 16, was Masters of the Board , a political thriller about a foiled Nigerian coup. The story was convincing enough that the Nigerian government threw him in jail for inciting a coincidentally timed real-life coup. Imprisoned and tortured twice more, he channeled the experience into searing poetry .,Abani's best-selling 2004 novel GraceLand is a searing and funny tale of a young Nigerian boy, an Elvis impersonator who moves through the wide, wild world of Lagos, slipping between pop and traditional cultures, art and crime. It's a perennial book-club pick, a story that brings the postcolonial African experience to vivid life. Now based in Los Angeles, Abani published The Virgin of Flames in 2007. He is also a publisher, running the poetry imprint Black Goat Press .
Patrick,Awuah,How to educate leaders? Liberal arts,University founder,www.ashesi.edu.gh/about/ashesi-s.../biography.htm,,Patrick Awuah left Ghana as a teenager to attend Swarthmore College in the United States, then stayed on to build a career at Microsoft in Seattle. In returning to his home country, he has made a commitment to educating young people in critical thinking and ethical service , values he believes are crucial for the nation-building that lies ahead.,Founded in 2002, his Ashesi University is already charting a new course in African education, with its high-tech facilities, innovative academic program and emphasis on leadership. It seems more than fitting that ashesi means beginning in Akan, one of Ghana's native languages.
Euvin,Naidoo,Why invest in Africa,Investment banker,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euvin_Naidoo,,Euvin Naidoo wants to change your mind about Africa. Armed with facts, figures and a forward-looking outlook, he conveys a nuanced picture of a continent that's large, diverse and full of potential, with stabilizing economies and business growth. Speaking at TED in a personal capacity, he offers persuasive reasons why the continent's challenges should be reframed as opportunities, and why investing in Africa can make great business sense. A third-generation South African, Naidoo spent four years as a consultant with McKinsey & Co., and holds an MBA from Harvard, where he currently sits on the Board of Admissions. As a banker and venture capitalist, he focuses on acquisition finance and private-equity transactions for emerging markets in Latin America and Africa. He now is President and CEO of the South African Chamber of Commerce in America (SACCA), a position which allows him to promote entrepreneurship and business investment throughout Africa.,
William,Kamkwamba,How I built a windmill,Inventor,williamkamkwamba.typepad.com/,,William Kamkwamba, from Malawi, is a born inventor. When he was 14, he built an electricity-producing windmill from spare parts and scrap, working from rough plans he found in a library book called Using Energy and modifying them to fit his needs. The windmill he built powers four lights and two radios in his family home.,After reading about Kamkwamba on Mike McKay's blog Hactivate (which picked up the story from a local Malawi newspaper), TEDGlobal Conference Director Emeka Okafor spent several weeks tracking him down at his home in Masitala Village, Wimbe, and invited him to attend TEDGlobal on a fellowship. Onstage, Kamkwamba talked about his invention and shared his dreams to build a larger windmill to help with irrigation for his entire village, and to go back to school.
Ngozi,Okonjo-Iweala,Aid versus trade,Economist,live.worldbank.org/experts/ngozi-okonjo-iweala,,Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a director of the World Bank, was Nigeria's Finance Minister and then briefly Foreign Affairs Minister from 2003 to 2006, the first woman to hold either position. In 2011, she was again named Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister for the Economy. Between those terms, from 2007 to 2011 she was a managing director of the World Bank.,During her two stints as Finance Minister, she has worked to combat corruption, make Nigeria's finances more transparent , and institute reforms to make the nation's economy more hospitable to foreign investment. The government unlinked its budget from the price of oil, its main export, to lessen perennial cashflow crises, and got oil companies to publish how much they pay the government. Since 2003 -- when watchdog group Transparency International rated Nigeria the most corrupt place on Earth -- the nation has made headway recovering stolen assets and jailing hundreds of people engaged in international Internet 419 scams.
George,Ayittey,Africa's cheetahs versus hippos,Economist,mercatus.org/george-ayittey,,Ghanaian economist George Ayittey was a voice in the wilderness for many years, crying out against the corruption and complacency that -- more than any other factor, he believes -- are the bedrock problems of many troubled Africa states. We call our governments vampire states , which suck the economic vitality out of the people, he says.,His influential book Africa Unchained has helped unleash a new wave of activism and optimism -- especially in the African blogosphere , where his notion of cheetahs-versus-hippos has become a standard shorthand. The Cheetah Generation, he says, is a new breed of Africans, taking their futures into their own hands, instead of waiting for politicians to empower them . (He compares them to the previous Hippo Generation, who are lazily stuck complaining about colonialism, yet doing nothing to change the status quo.)
Allison,Hunt,How to get (a new) hip,Marketing expert,https//allisonhunt.wikispaces.com/,,Allison runs HATCH Research Intelligence in Toronto, a qualitative market research company that consults on marketing communications and strategy development for clients like Kellogg's, Toyota and Molson-Coors.,
David,Bolinsky,Visualizing the wonder of a living cell,Medical animator,www.xvivo.net/,,Medical illustrator and animator David Bolinsky has devoted his career to displaying scientific and medical concepts in a clear, fresh light. Since the earliest days of computer animation, he knew this art could be a powerful tool for explaining scientific concepts in ways that traditional medical illustration simply couldn't. Now, with XVIVO , the company he co-founded, he works with schools and with medical and scientific firms, turning complex processes into understandable, compelling films . The Inner Life of a Cell, highlighted at TED2007, represents the leading edge of medical animation, in both its technical achievement and its focus on compelling, memorable action . Created as part of the BioVision initiative to help explain cellular processes to students at Harvard's Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology , the clip has captured the imagination of the press -- and reportedly, of Hollywood.,“Who would have thought the inner workings of a white blood cell could be visually stunning? For those who fell asleep during high school biology classes, David Bolinsky's presentation at the TED conference was a revelation.” — Wired News
Rives,,The 4 a.m. mystery,Performance poet, multimedia artist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rives,,Part poet, part storyteller, part philosopher, Rives is the co-host of TEDActive as well as a frequent TED speaker. On stage, his poems burst in many directions, exposing multiple layers and unexpected treats childhood memories, grown-up humor, notions of love and lust, of what is lost forever and of what's still out there waiting to unfold. Chimborazo .,A regular on HBO's Def Poetry Jam , Rives also starred alongside model Bar Refaeli in the 2008 Bravo special Ironic Iconic America , touring the United States on a roller coaster ride through the eye-popping panorama of American pop culture. Flat pages can't contain his storytelling, even when paper is his medium. The pop-up books he creates for children unfold with surprise The Christmas Pop-Up Present expands to reveal moving parts, hidden areas and miniature booklets inside.
Will,Wright,Spore, birth of a game,Game designer,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Will_Wright,,A technical virtuoso with boundless imagination, Will Wright has created a style of computer gaming unlike any that came before, emphasizing learning more than losing, invention more than sport. With his hit game SimCity , he spurred players to make predictions, take risks, and sometimes fail miserably , as they built their own virtual urban worlds. With his follow-up hit, The Sims , he encouraged the same creativity toward building a household, all the while preserving the addictive fun of ordinary video games. His next game, Spore , which he previewed at TED2007, evolves an entire universe from a single-celled creature.,Wright's genius is for presenting vital abstract principles -- like evolution, differences of scale, and environmental dynamics -- through a highly personalized, humorous kind of play . Users invest themselves passionately in characters they create (with Wright's mind-boggling CG tools), and then watch them encounter fundamentals of life and nature. If it all sounds suspiciously educational, well, it just might be. Wright has created not just an irresistible form of entertainment, but an ingenious, original pedagogy.
Emily,Oster,Flip your thinking on AIDS in Africa,Assumption-busting economist,home.uchicago.edu/~eoster/papers.html,,Emily Oster , an Assistant Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, has a history of rethinking conventional wisdom.,Her Harvard doctoral thesis took on famed economist Amartya Sen and his claim that 100 million women were statistically missing from the developing world. He blamed misogynist medical care and outright sex-selective abortion for the gap, but Oster pointed to data indicating that in countries where Hepetitis B infections were higher, more boys were born. Through her unorthodox analysis of medical data, she accounted for 50% of the missing girls. Three years later, she would publish another paper amending her findings, stating that, after further study, the relationship between Hepetitis B and missing women was not apparent. This concession, along with her audacity to challenge economic assumptions and her dozens of other influential papers, has earned her the respect of the global academic community.
Jonathan,Harris,The Web's secret stories,Artist, storyteller, Internet anthropologist,ww.number27.org/cowbird/talks,,Brooklyn-based artist Jonathan Harris ' work celebrates the world's diversity even as it illustrates the universal concerns of its occupants. His computer programs scour the Internet for unfiltered content , which his beautiful interfaces then organize to create coherence from the chaos. His projects are both intensely personal (the  We Feel Fine  project, made with Sep Kanvar , which scans the world's blogs to collect snapshots of the writers' feelings) and entirely global (the new  Universe , which turns current events into constellations of words ). But their effect is the same -- to show off a world that resonates with shared emotions, concerns, problems, triumphs and troubles .,“Jonathan Harris [is] a New York artist and storyteller working primarily on the Internet. His work involves the exploration and understanding of humans, on a global scale, through the artifacts they leave behind on the Web.” — Edge.org
Alan,Russell,The potential of regenerative medicine,Medical futurist,alanrussell.net,,Alan Russell is a professor of surgery -- and of chemical engineering. In crossing the two fields, he is expanding our palette of treatments for disease, injury and congenital defects. We can treat symptoms, he says, or we can replace our damaged parts with bioengineered tissue . As he puts it If newts can regenerate a lost limb, why can't we?,The founding director of the McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine , at the University of Pittsburgh, Russell leads an ambitious biomedicine program that explores tissue engineering, stem cell research, biosurgery and artificial and biohybrid organs. They've also started testing a new kind of heart pump , figured out that Botox can help with enlarged prostate , and identified human adipose cells as having the possibility to repair skeletal muscle . In his own Russell Lab , his team has studied antimicrobial surfaces and helping to develop a therapy to reduce scarring on muscle after injury . Lately, his lab is involved in biotechnology studies in relation to chemical and biological weapons defense.
Dan,Dennett,Dangerous memes,Philosopher, cognitive scientist,ase.tufts.edu/cogstud/,,One of our most important living philosophers, Dan Dennett is best known for his provocative and controversial arguments that human consciousness and free will are the result of physical processes in the brain. He argues that the brain's computational circuitry fools us into thinking we know more than we do, and that what we call consciousness — isn't. His 2003 book Freedom Evolves explores how our brains evolved to give us -- and only us -- the kind of freedom that matters, while 2006's Breaking the Spell examines belief through the lens of biology. This mind-shifting perspective on the mind itself has distinguished Dennett's career as a philosopher and cognitive scientist. And while the philosophy community has never quite known what to make of Dennett (he defies easy categorization, and refuses to affiliate himself with accepted schools of thought), his computational approach to understanding the brain has made him, as Edge's John Brockman writes, “the philosopher of choice of the AI community.” “It's tempting to say that Dennett has never met a robot he didn't like, and that what he likes most about them is that they are philosophical experiments,” Harry Blume wrote in the Atlantic Monthly in 1998. “To the question of whether machines can attain high-order intelligence, Dennett makes this provocative answer ‘The best reason for believing that robots might some day become conscious is that we human beings are conscious, and we are a sort of robot ourselves.',In recent years, Dennett has become outspoken in his atheism, and his 2006 book Breaking the Spell calls for religion to be studied through the scientific lens of evolutionary biology. Dennett regards religion as a natural -- rather than supernatural -- phenomenon, and urges schools to break the taboo against empirical examination of religion. He argues that religion's influence over human behavior is precisely what makes gaining a rational understanding of it so necessary “If we don't understand religion, we're going to miss our chance to improve the world in the 21st century.”
Bill,Stone,I'm going to the moon. Who's with me?,Explorer, inventor and outer space dreamer,www.stoneaerospace.com/,,Engineer and daredevil explorer Bill Stone is obsessed with discovery. After years of crawling through the deepest unexplored caves on the planet, he's building robots to go where he can't. His company Stone Aerospace built DepthX, an autonomous robot, which descended 1,099 feet down Mexico's deepest watery sinkhole. In 2009, Stone and his team completed a successful mission to Antarctica. ENDURANCE, an expedition sponsored by NASA, was developed to explore and map under the ice of Lake Bonney in Antarctica. But this was just a test for the real mission (which is explained in a National Geographic documentary, Journey to an Alien Moon ) building a probe with NASA to bore through miles of ice on Jupiter's moon Europa, then swim through the buried Europan sea in search of alien life. He's also hoping to singlehandedly jump-start commercial human space exploration by offering spacefarers affordable fuels and consumables extracted from the moon. His new Shackleton Energy Company, or SEC , intends to raise $15 billion (as he points out, this is about the cost of a North Sea oil production platform complex) to mine ice thought to be trapped on the moon's southern pole at Shackleton Crater, and to sell derived products (including propellants and other consumables) on the moon and in low earth orbit (LEO) to international consumers.,Read about his 2014 expedition to the Chevé system , perhaps the deepest cave on Earth.
Hans,Rosling,New insights on poverty,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Stephen,Lawler,Tour Microsoft's Virtual Earth,General manager of Microsoft's Virtual Earth,https//www.ted.com/speakers/stephen_lawler,,Microsoft's Stephen Lawler offers a tour of Virtual Earth that not only reveals the power and potential of the software itself, but also gives a global glimpse of the new virtual frontier of digital globes , the 3D Web and the metaverse. Lawler also explores the enormous effort it takes to create the fluid blending and shifting between the multiple view s and resolutions of Virtual Earth. From the satellites and airplanes that gather photo data for a top-down view to the ground vehicles and headgear-wearing pedestrians who canvas the ground for an eye-level perspective -- all of it represents a monumental effort of logistics and mechanics.,“The cool bird's-eye views were enough of a draw in the previous version, but the 3D is downright addictive. This probably would be enough to please most people even without the local search, maps, and wealth of extra features.” — PC Magazine
Ethel,,A string quartet plays Blue Room,String quartet,www.ethelcentral.org,,An all-star foursome, Ethel includes performers Cornelius Dufallo (violin), Ralph Farris (viola), Dorothy Lawson (cello), and Mary Rowell (violin), a mixed bag of players from classical, rock and downtown new-music circles . The powerhouse ensemble takes an unconventional approach to performance.,Says the Wall Street Journal, Ethel ... created a world in which classical music had never grown distant , a world in which it was as fresh and direct as crowds dancing in the street.
Thomas,Barnett,Let's rethink America's military strategy,Military strategist,thomaspmbarnett.com/,,Thomas P.M. Barnett's bracing confidence and radical recommendations make him a powerful force shaping the future of the US military.,In his book The Pentagon's New Map War and Peace in the Twenty-First Century , Barnett draws on a fascinating combination of economic, political and cultural factors to predict and explain the nature of modern warfare . He presents concrete, world-changing strategies for transforming the US military -- adrift in the aftermath of the Cold War and 9/11 -- into a two-tiered power capable not only of winning battles, but of promoting and preserving international peace .
David,Rockwell,A memorial at Ground Zero,Architect, experience designer,www.rockwellgroup.com/,,David Rockwell does dramatic design , from the sleek interiors of Nobu and the W Hotels to the exuberant Mohegan Sun Casino, from the pop-tastic scenery for the Broadway musical Hairspray to the sublimely hilarious high-modern sets for Team America World Police .,He won the Presidential Design Award for his extraordinary work renovating New York's Grand Central Station , and his firm, the Rockwell Group , is designing the interior for the JetBlue terminal at New York's JFK Airport. Rockwell has published several books on his architectural and design process, including Pleasure and Spectacle -- two qualities that abound in his work.
Robert,Thurman,We can be Buddhas,Buddhist scholar,https//bobthurman.com/,,Tenzin Robert Thurman became a Tibetan monk at age 24. He's a professor of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist studies at Columbia University, and co-founder of Tibet House US , a nonprofit dedicated to the preservation and promotion of Tibetan civilization . Thurman's focus is on the balance between inner insight and cultural harmony. In interpreting the teachings of Buddha, he argues that happiness can be reliable and satisfying in an enduring way without depriving others . He has translated many Buddhist Sutras , or teachings, and written many books, recently taking on the topic of Anger for the recent Oxford series on the seven deadly sins. He maintains a podcast on Buddhist topics. And yes, he is Uma's dad.,“Thurman considers Buddhism to be primarily a system of education, a science that guides individuals to live life to its fullest.” — Kansas City Star
Anand,Agarawala,Rethink the desktop with BumpTop,Interaction designer, software developer,honeybrown.ca/,,Interface designer, software developer, inventor, and nerdcore hip-hopper Anand Agarawala brings a welcome sense of expressiveness to the dusty desktop interface . His BumpTop software applies a 3D metaphor and rough-and-tumble interactivity that delights anyone who sees it in action. In addition to its raw play-with-me fun , BumpTop is also an inspiring example of unconventional thinking. The BumpTop world is a physical space, where traditional point-and-click movement is replaced with a more literal push and pull approach, and the icons each possess a weight that reflects their relative importance. Meanwhile, commands are executed via a novel set of pen/stylus shortcuts that go well beyond the limited click-and-drag way of doing things.,Even if you're not quite ready to trade your olde tyme desktop for the BumpTop experience, the interface's unexpected approach to problem-solving is sure to bump-start your thinking in new and unusual directions.
Ngozi,Okonjo-Iweala,Want to help Africa? Do business here,Economist,live.worldbank.org/experts/ngozi-okonjo-iweala,,Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a director of the World Bank, was Nigeria's Finance Minister and then briefly Foreign Affairs Minister from 2003 to 2006, the first woman to hold either position. In 2011, she was again named Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister for the Economy. Between those terms, from 2007 to 2011 she was a managing director of the World Bank.,During her two stints as Finance Minister, she has worked to combat corruption, make Nigeria's finances more transparent , and institute reforms to make the nation's economy more hospitable to foreign investment. The government unlinked its budget from the price of oil, its main export, to lessen perennial cashflow crises, and got oil companies to publish how much they pay the government. Since 2003 -- when watchdog group Transparency International rated Nigeria the most corrupt place on Earth -- the nation has made headway recovering stolen assets and jailing hundreds of people engaged in international Internet 419 scams.
John,Doerr,Salvation (and profit) in greentech,Venture capitalist,www.kpcb.com/partner/john-doerr,,John Doerr, a partner in famed VC firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , made upwards of $1 billion picking dot-com stars like Amazon, Google, Compaq and Netscape . (He also picked some flops, like Go Corporation and the scandal-ridden MyCFO.com.) He was famously quoted saying, The Internet is the greatest legal creation of wealth in history, right before the dot-com crash. However, his business prowess earned him an appointment on President Obama's Economic Advisory Board in 2009 following the economic downturn.,But now he's back, warning that carbon-dioxide-sputtering, gas-powered capitalism will destroy us all, and that going green may be the biggest economic opportunity of the 21st century. So Kleiner Perkins has invested $200 million in so-called greentech, a combination of startups that are pioneering alternative energy, waste remediation and other schemes to prevent the coming environmental calamity. But Doerr is afraid that it might be too little, too late.
Blaise,Agüera,How PhotoSynth can connect the world's images,Software architect,styleisviolence.com,,Blaise Aguera y Arcas' background is as multidimensional as the visions he helps create. In the 1990s, he authored patents on both video compression and 3D visualization techniques, and in 2001, he made an influential computational discovery that cast doubt on Gutenberg's role as the father of movable type.,He also created Seadragon (acquired by Microsoft in 2006), the visualization technology that gives Photosynth its amazingly smooth digital rendering and zoom capabilities. Photosynth itself is a vastly powerful piece of software capable of taking a wide variety of images, analyzing them for similarities, and grafting them together into an interactive three-dimensional space. This seamless patchwork of images can be viewed via multiple angles and magnifications, allowing us to look around corners or “fly” in for a (much) closer look. Simply put, it could utterly transform the way we experience digital images.
Tierney,Thys,Swim with the giant sunfish,Marine biologist, Oceansunfish.org,,Marine biologist Tierney Thys has fallen head over heels for a big, goofy fish the Mola mola, or giant ocean sunfish. In studying the mola -- where they go, what they eat, what eats them -- she's also hunting for clues to the behavior of all life in the open ocean. With their enormous, odd bodies, peaceful habits and lust for jellyfish, these giants can be key to understanding life in the open ocean . Thys and her team are tagging and tracking molas worldwide to learn about how they live, and how climate change may be affecting all ocean life. Thys is a National Geographic Explorer with a passion for marine education. She was also past director of research at the Sea Studios Foundation , a team of scientists and filmmakers that makes media to raise awareness of environmental issues -- including the PBS series Strange Days on Planet Earth and targeted videos that influence policymakers and businesspeople. Sea Studios was also instrumental in helping eBay stop the trading of invasive species.,
Jeff,Hawkins,How brain science will change computing,Computer designer, brain researcher,numenta.com/company/,,Jeff Hawkins' Palm PDA became such a widely used productivity tool during the 1990s that some fanatical users claimed it replaced their brains. But Hawkins' deepest interest was in the brain itself. So after the success of the Palm and Treo, which he brought to market at Handspring, Hawkins delved into brain research at the Redwood Center for Theoretical Neuroscience in Berkeley, Calif., and a new company called Numenta .,Hawkins' dual goal is to achieve an understanding of how the human brain actually works -- and then develop software to mimic its functionality, delivering true artificial intelligence . In his book On Intelligence (2004) he lays out his compelling, controversial theory Contrary to popular AI wisdom, the human neocortex doesn't work like a processor, rather, it relies on a memory system that stores and plays back experiences to help us predict, intelligently, what will happen next . He thinks that hierarchical temporal memory computer platforms, which mimic this functionality (and which Numenta might pioneer), could enable groundbreaking new applications that could powerfully extend human intelligence.
Stewart,Brand,What squatter cities can teach us,Environmentalist, futurist,sb.longnow.org/,,With biotech accelerating four times faster than digital technology, the revival of extinct species is becoming possible. Stewart Brand plans to not only bring species back but restore them to the wild.,Brand is already a legend in the tech industry for things he’s created the Whole Earth Catalog , The WELL, the Global Business Network, the Long Now Foundation, and the notion that “information wants to be free.” Now Brand, a lifelong environmentalist, wants to re-create -- or “de-extinct” -- a few animals that’ve disappeared from the planet.
David,Kelley,Human-centered design,Designer, educator,https//www.ideo.com/people/david-kelley,,As founder of legendary design firm IDEO, David Kelley built the company that created many icons of the digital generation -- the first mouse, the first Treo, the thumbs up/thumbs down button on your Tivo's remote control, to name a few. But what matters even more to him is unlocking the creative potential of people and organizations so they can innovate routinely.,David Kelley's most enduring contributions to the field of design are a methodology and culture of innovation. More recently, he led the creation of the groundbreaking d.school at Stanford, the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, where students from the business, engineering, medicine, law, and other diverse disciplines develop the capacity to solve complex problems collaboratively and creatively.
James,Howard,The ghastly tragedy of the suburbs,Social critic,kunstler.com/,,James Howard Kunstler calls suburban sprawl  the greatest misallocation of resources the world has ever known . His arguments bring a new lens to urban development, drawing clear connections between physical spaces and cultural vitality. Geography of Nowhere , published in 1993, presented a grim vision of America in decline -- a nation of cookie-cutter strip malls, vacuous city centers, and dead spaces wrought by what Kunstler calls the ethos of Happy Motoring our society-wide dependence on the automobile. The Long Emergency (2005) takes a hard look at energy dependency, arguing that the end of the fossil fuels era will force a return to smaller-scale, agrarian-focused communities and an overhaul of many of the most prominent and destructive features of postwar society. His confrontational approach and propensity for doomsday scenarios make Kunstler a lightning rod for controversy and critics . But his magnificent rants are underscored with logic and his books are widely read, particularly by architectural critics and urban planners.,“The upside of Kunstler's anger is that he's getting people to sit up and take notice.” — Outside magazine
Stew,,Black Men Ski,Singer/songwriter,www.stewleonards.com/weekly-specials/all-stores,,Singer/raconteur Stew combines elements of cabaret, soul and subversive pop to create a unique style he's dubbed Afro-baroque. Frequently likened to Cole Porter and Burt Bacharach, Stew spins songs with hook-filled melodies and taut poetic narratives  Sophisticated songs that are not likely to be heard on the radio, writes the New Yorker.,He may be underplayed, but he's far from undiscovered. Entertainment Weekly twice awarded him Album of the Year, and he and his collaborator Heidi Rodewald have been artists-in-residence two years running at the Sundance Theater Lab, developing their musical, Passing Strange, commissioned by New York's Public Theater , the show had an award-winning preview at the Berkeley Repertory Theater in 2006 and played at the Public in 2007 before beginning its current Tony Award-winning Broadway run.
Sergey,Brin,The genesis of Google,CEO of Google,google.com,,Larry Page and Sergey Brin met in grad school at Stanford in the mid-'90s, and in 1996 started working on a search technology based on a new idea that relevant results come from context. Their technology analyzed the number of times a given website was linked to by other sites — assuming that the more links, the more relevant the site — and ranked sites accordingly. In 1998, they opened Google in a garage-office in Menlo Park. In 1999 their software left beta and started its steady rise to web domination.,Beyond the company's ubiquitous search, including AdSense/AdWords, Google Maps, Google Earth and the mighty Gmail. In 2011, Page stepped back into his original role of chief executive officer. He now leads Google with high aims and big thinking, and finds time to devote to his projects like Google X, the idea lab for the out-there experiments that keep Google pushing the limits.
Natalie,MacMaster,Cape Breton fiddling in reel time,Fiddler,www.nataliemacmaster.com/,,It's not easy to make traditional Irish-Scottish music sound sexy and yet still seem wholesome. But Natalie MacMaster manages this feat, drawing listeners in with her playful showmanship , and then holding them rapt with astounding technical flourishes. The niece of renowned Canadian fiddler Buddy MacMaster , she's taken up the mantle as standard-bearer for Cape Breton fiddling, a method of Scottish-style violin-playing that's evolved over the last century on this island neighbor to Nova Scotia. The tradition was on the wane when, in 1972, a CBS documentary provocatively titled The Vanishing Cape Breton Fiddler jump-started preservation efforts in the fiddling community. MacMaster's enthusiastic charm and extraordinary skill has landed her star billing on the international folk circuit and multiple Grammy nominations. She's released nine albums, including Yours Truly (2006), Natalie and Buddy MacMaster (2005) and My Roots Are Showing (1998). She's toured with countless performers, including the Chieftains, Faith Hill, Carlos Santana and Alison Krauss, and has been awarded two Juno Awards (Canada's equivalent to the Grammy).,
Chris,Anderson,Technology's long tail,Drone maker,www.thelongtail.com/,,Before Chris Anderson took over as editor of WIRED, he spent seven years at The Economist, where he worked as editor of both the technology and business sections. Anderson holds a degree in physics and has conducted research at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, and has done stints at the leading journals Nature and Science .,(He is not, however, to be confused with the curator of TED, who has the same name.)
Rachelle,Garniez,La Vie en Rose,Electronic music pioneer,www.rachellegarniez.com/,,Perhaps best known for blinding us with science, TED Music Director Thomas Dolby has always blurred the lines between composition and invention . As a London teenager, Tom Robertson was fascinated with the convergence of music and technology. His experiments with an assortment of keyboards, synthesizers and cassette players led his friends to dub him “Dolby.” That same fascination later drove him to become an electronic musician and multimedia artist whose groundbreaking work fused music with computer technology and video . Two decades, several film scores, five Grammy nominations and countless live-layered sound loops later, it's clear Dolby's innovations have changed the sound of popular music. In the 1990s, Dolby re-created himself as a digital-musical entrepreneur, founding Beatnik, which developed the polyphonic ringtone software used in more than half a billion cell phones. Now back to touring and recording (after a 15-year hiatus), he's using seriously retro technology -- '40s-era oscilloscopes and Royal Navy field-test equipment -- to control his modern synthesizers, in shows that are at once nostalgic and cutting edge. And he continues his tenure as TED's Music Director , leading the eclectic characters of the TED House Band.,“Dolby enjoys the enviable position of not having to make music for a living, and that allows him to give serious consideration to what's important to him about being a pop artist.” — San Francisco Chronicle
Tom,Rielly,A comic sendup of TED2006,Satirist,tomrielly.typepad.com/,,Talk a walk back through the history of digital media, and you'll find our colleague Tom Rielly every step along the way. He entered the mediasphere with a memorable turn in the 1980 film My Bodyguard . A lifelong performer, he soon found a second love in personal computing. He recognized early on the incredible power of Macs, CD-ROMs and the Web, founding Yale's Macintosh User Group in 1984, then working at SuperMac, Farallon and Voyager, among other pioneering companies. Rielly is perhaps best-known for co-founding PlanetOut , the first digital home for gays and lesbians, which went public in 2004. He also co-founded the influential nonprofit Digital Queers. As TED's Director of Partnerships , Tom now choreographs the wide range of collaborations that help bring TED to life, at the conference and online. But he's found his true vocation as TED's resident satirist , a role he's played for more than a decade.,Since 1995, Rielly has been hijacking the final session of the conference with his whip-smart satire of all the speakers who came before him -- skewering the egos, mocking the flights of fancy, parroting the doomsday predictions, and imagining a world where Al Gore tells him I can't quit you. Fearless and unfailingly funny, Tom's lightning performances bring a flash of brilliance to the closing session and draw a standing ovation every time.
Richard,Dawkins,Militant atheism,Evolutionary biologist, RichardDawkins.net,,As an evolutionary biologist, Richard Dawkins has broadened our understanding of the genetic origin of our species, as a popular author, he has helped lay readers understand complex scientific concepts. He's best-known for the ideas laid out in his landmark book The Selfish Gene and fleshed out in The Extended Phenotype  the rather radical notion that Darwinian selection happens not at the level of the individual, but at the level of our DNA . The implication We evolved for only one purpose — to serve our genes. Of perhaps equal importance is Dawkins' concept of the meme , which he defines as a self-replicating unit of culture -- an idea, a chain letter, a catchy tune, an urban legend -- which is passed person-to-person, its longevity based on its ability to lodge in the brain and inspire transmission to others. Introduced in The Selfish Gene in 1976, the concept of memes has itself proven highly contagious, inspiring countless accounts and explanations of idea propagation in the information age. In recent years, Dawkins has become outspoken in his atheism , coining the word bright (as an alternate to atheist), and encouraging fellow non-believers to stand up and be identified. His controversial, confrontational 2002 TED talk was a seminal moment for the New Atheism, as was the publication of his 2006 book, The God Delusion , a bestselling critique of religion that championed atheism and promoted scientific principles over creationism and intelligent design.,“Dawkins ... is a master of scientific exposition and synthesis. When it comes to his own specialty, evolutionary biology, there is none better.” — Jim Holt, The New York Times
Tom,Honey,Why would God create a tsunami?,Priest,www.redcrossblood.org ,,Tom Honey's appeal goes far beyond his own congregation. For years he was the vicar of the church in Oxford attended decades earlier by the Christian thinker C.S. Lewis. The Reverend Honey built a reputation there for thoughtful sermons that disdained cliche or easy answers. They were often willing to grapple with the darker side of life -- pain, loss, grief -- and the challenges these presented to the concept of a loving God.,These challenges were dramatically highlighted by the devastation of the Indian Ocean tsunami of late 2004 in which some 300,000 people died , making it one of the worst natural disasters in human history. The sermon penned by Honey shortly after was eloquent and powerful enough to win him an invitation to come speak at TED.
Eddi,Reader,Kiteflyer's Hill,Singer/songwriter,www.eddireader.co.uk/,,Scotland-born Eddi Reader was an '80s pop star in the UK, where her band Fairground Attraction had a #1 hit with the supercatchy Perfect. Now, as a solo artist, her sounds has matured, quiet acoustic arrangements and gentle harmonies put her lush voice front and center . TED Music Director Thomas Dolby calls her his favorite singer of all time. Albums such as Candyfloss and Medicine and Angels & Electricity established her as a thoughtful songwriter and interpreter, with an affinity for wistful songs of longing and loss -- and a nice sideline in what used to be called message songs, which call to the listener to think about war and peace, the Earth and our place in it. Reader has also become a noted interpreter of the poems of Robert Burns . Her latest album, Peacetime , offers a compelling mix of Burns lyrics, traditional folk tunes and new songs written by Reader and her longtime songwriting partner, Boo Hewerdine. Fun fact The title song on the album, Peacetime, Eddi first learned backstage at her 2003 TED performance.,“Some voices just do the job, don't they? For me, Eddi Reader is up there with, for instance, Bonnie Raitt and k.d. lang, singers who combine amazing technical control with emotional authority to make their heart-lifting music sound as natural as breathing.” — Chris Ingham, Mojo, June 1998
Eddi,Reader,What You've Got,Singer/songwriter,www.eddireader.co.uk/,,Scotland-born Eddi Reader was an '80s pop star in the UK, where her band Fairground Attraction had a #1 hit with the supercatchy Perfect. Now, as a solo artist, her sounds has matured, quiet acoustic arrangements and gentle harmonies put her lush voice front and center . TED Music Director Thomas Dolby calls her his favorite singer of all time. Albums such as Candyfloss and Medicine and Angels & Electricity established her as a thoughtful songwriter and interpreter, with an affinity for wistful songs of longing and loss -- and a nice sideline in what used to be called message songs, which call to the listener to think about war and peace, the Earth and our place in it. Reader has also become a noted interpreter of the poems of Robert Burns . Her latest album, Peacetime , offers a compelling mix of Burns lyrics, traditional folk tunes and new songs written by Reader and her longtime songwriting partner, Boo Hewerdine. Fun fact The title song on the album, Peacetime, Eddi first learned backstage at her 2003 TED performance.,“Some voices just do the job, don't they? For me, Eddi Reader is up there with, for instance, Bonnie Raitt and k.d. lang, singers who combine amazing technical control with emotional authority to make their heart-lifting music sound as natural as breathing.” — Chris Ingham, Mojo, June 1998
Rives,,A mockingbird remix of TED2006,Performance poet, multimedia artist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rives,,Part poet, part storyteller, part philosopher, Rives is the co-host of TEDActive as well as a frequent TED speaker. On stage, his poems burst in many directions, exposing multiple layers and unexpected treats childhood memories, grown-up humor, notions of love and lust, of what is lost forever and of what's still out there waiting to unfold. Chimborazo .,A regular on HBO's Def Poetry Jam , Rives also starred alongside model Bar Refaeli in the 2008 Bravo special Ironic Iconic America , touring the United States on a roller coaster ride through the eye-popping panorama of American pop culture. Flat pages can't contain his storytelling, even when paper is his medium. The pop-up books he creates for children unfold with surprise The Christmas Pop-Up Present expands to reveal moving parts, hidden areas and miniature booklets inside.
Jeff,Bezos,The electricity metaphor for the web's future,Online commerce pioneer,https//www.blueorigin.com/news,,Jeff Bezos didn't invent online shopping, but he almost single-handedly turned it into a multi-billion-dollar enterprise. His Amazon.com began as a bookstore in 1994, and quickly expanded into dozens of product categories, forcing the world's biggest retailers to rethink their business models, and ultimately changing the way people shop . But Amazon.com isn't just an internet success story. It's the standard by which all web businesses are now judged -- if not by their shareholders, then by their customers. Amazon set a high bar for reliability and customer service, and also introduced a wide range of online retail conventions -- from user reviews and one-click shopping to the tab interface and shopping cart icon -- so commonplace we no longer think of them as once having been innovations. When the Internet bubble burst, Amazon.com took a hit with the other e-commerce pioneers, but the fundamentally sound company hung tough. It now sells more than $10 billion a year of goods, profitably , and its technology will influence the changes to business and media that will come next. Amazon recently released Kindle, a wireless digital reading device, giving the term page turning a completely new definition. Bezos, meanwhile, is one of the few early Web CEOs who still run the companies they founded. Outside of his work with Amazon, he recently founded Blue Origin , a space-flight startup.,“If the Internet was the new rock and roll, Jeff Bezos…was its Elvis … [Today he’s] the ultimate dotcom survivor. ” — BBCNews.comWilliam,McDonough,Cradle to cradle design,Architect,www.mcdonough.com,,Architect William McDonough practices green architecture on a massive scale. In a 20-year project, he is redesigning Ford's city-sized River Rouge truck plant and turning it into the Rust Belt's eco-poster child, with the world's largest living roof for reclaiming storm runoff. He has created buildings that produce more energy and clean water than they use. He is building the future of design on the site of the future of exploration the NASA Sustainability Base. Oh, and he's designing seven entirely new and entirely green cities in China. Bottom-line economic benefits are another specialty of McDonough's practice. A tireless proponent of the idea that absolute sustainability and economic success can go hand-in-hand, he's designed buildings for the Gap, Nike, Frito-Lay and Ford that have lowered corporate utility bills by capturing daylight for lighting, using natural ventilation instead of AC, and heating with solar or geothermal energy. They're also simply nicer places to work, surrounded by natural landscaping that gives back to the biosphere, showcasing their innovative culture.,In 2002, McDonough co-wrote Cradle to Cradle , which proposes that designers think as much about what happens at the end of a product's life cycle as they do about its beginning. (The book itself is printed on recyclable plastic.) From this, he is developing the Cradle to Cradle community , where like-minded designers and businesspeople can grow the idea. In 2012, McDonough began collaborating with Stanford University Libraries on a “living archive” of his work and communications. He has been awarded three times by the US government, and in 2014, McDonough was appointed as Chair of the Meta-Council on the Circular Economy by the World Economic Forum.
Evelyn,Glennie,How to truly listen,Musician,https//www.evelyn.co.uk,,Dame Evelyn Glennie's music challenges the listener to ask where music comes from Is it more than simply a translation from score to instrument to audience? The Grammy-winning percussionist and composer became almost completely deaf by the age of 12, but her hearing loss brought her a deeper understanding of and connection to the music she loves. She's the subject of the documentary Touch the Sound , which explores this unconventional and intriguing approach to percussion. Along with her vibrant solo career, Glennie has collaborated with musicians ranging from classical orchestras to Björk. Her career has taken her to hundreds of concert stages around the world, and she's recorded a dozen albums, winning a Grammy for her recording of Bartók's Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion , and another for her 2002 collaboration with Bela Fleck .,Her passion for music and musical literacy brought her to establish, in collaboration with fellow musicians Julian Lloyd Weber and Sir James Galway, the Music Education Consortium, which successfully lobbied for an investment of 332 million pounds in music education and musical resources in Britain.
Dan,Dennett,The illusion of consciousness,Philosopher, cognitive scientist,ase.tufts.edu/cogstud/,,One of our most important living philosophers, Dan Dennett is best known for his provocative and controversial arguments that human consciousness and free will are the result of physical processes in the brain. He argues that the brain's computational circuitry fools us into thinking we know more than we do, and that what we call consciousness — isn't. His 2003 book Freedom Evolves explores how our brains evolved to give us -- and only us -- the kind of freedom that matters, while 2006's Breaking the Spell examines belief through the lens of biology. This mind-shifting perspective on the mind itself has distinguished Dennett's career as a philosopher and cognitive scientist. And while the philosophy community has never quite known what to make of Dennett (he defies easy categorization, and refuses to affiliate himself with accepted schools of thought), his computational approach to understanding the brain has made him, as Edge's John Brockman writes, “the philosopher of choice of the AI community.” “It's tempting to say that Dennett has never met a robot he didn't like, and that what he likes most about them is that they are philosophical experiments,” Harry Blume wrote in the Atlantic Monthly in 1998. “To the question of whether machines can attain high-order intelligence, Dennett makes this provocative answer ‘The best reason for believing that robots might some day become conscious is that we human beings are conscious, and we are a sort of robot ourselves.',In recent years, Dennett has become outspoken in his atheism, and his 2006 book Breaking the Spell calls for religion to be studied through the scientific lens of evolutionary biology. Dennett regards religion as a natural -- rather than supernatural -- phenomenon, and urges schools to break the taboo against empirical examination of religion. He argues that religion's influence over human behavior is precisely what makes gaining a rational understanding of it so necessary “If we don't understand religion, we're going to miss our chance to improve the world in the 21st century.”
Caroline,Lavelle,Casting a spell on the cello,Cellist, singer-songwriter,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_TED_speakers,,Connecting the best of British chamber folk and folk rock to modern electronic music, Caroline Lavelle is frequently sought out for both her vocals and her cello playing. The genre-bridging cellist has collaborated with the likes of Peter Gabriel, Laurie Anderson, Radiohead, the Cranberries, BT, Massive Attack and William Orbit, among others (she reportedly inspired Madonna to pursue her own successful collaboration with Orbit). In her TED performance of Further than the Sun, Lavelle plays the cello like a sorceress casting a spell , occasionally hiding behind her wild mane of blond hair as she sings of pastoral themes. She's produced three solo albums -- A Distant Bell (2004), Brilliant Midnight (2001) and Spirit (1995) -- and is a touring member of the Chieftains.,
Jill,Sobule,Global warming's theme song, Manhattan in January,Singer/songwriter,jillsobule.com/,,Jill Sobule first found her place in music history with the controversial 1995 hit  I Kissed a Girl . The song's silly sweetness masked its significance It broke new ground as the first Top 40 hit to deal with overtly gay themes. This approach -- packaging hard-hitting social commentary in a wrapper of whimsy -- has defined Sobule's career. Her endearing story-songs veer from fanciful storytelling to forceful satire and back again, covering a wide range of political and social issues from climate change to prostitution, anorexia to anti-semitism. Her winning combination of memorable characters, clever lyrics and catchy tunes has inspired comparisons that range from Burt Bacharach to Gertrude Stein. It also makes her performances and recordings a delight. Sobule's candy-coated commentary can be found on her Huffington Post blog , as well as in her steady stream of stand-out albums, including Jill Sobule (1995), Happy Town (1997), Pink Pearl (2000) and Underdog Victorious (2004). Lately, Sobule has performed regularly with comedian Julia Sweeney (the two met at TED2006). They put on the Jill and Julia Show, an utterly endearing evening of stories and songs. She's also recording an album with the string quartet Ethel (another TED2006 match).,“Jill Sobule can claim her place among the stellar New York singer-songwriters of the last decade. Topical, funny and more than a little poignant ... grown-up music for an adolescent age.” — The New York Times
Juan,Enriquez,The life code that will reshape the future,Futurist,excelvm.com,,A broad thinker who studies the intersection of science, business and society, Juan Enriquez has a talent for bridging disciplines to build a coherent look ahead. Enriquez was the founding director of the Harvard Business School Life Sciences Project , and has published widely on topics from the technical (global nucleotide data flow) to the sociological (gene research and national competitiveness), and was a member of Celera Genomics founder Craig Venter 's marine-based team to collect genetic data from the world's oceans.,Formerly CEO of Mexico City's Urban Development Corporation and chief of staff for Mexico's secretary of state, Enriquez played a role in reforming Mexico's domestic policy and helped negotiate a cease-fire with Zapatista rebels. He is a Managing Director at Excel Medical Ventures , a life sciences venture capital firm, and the chair and CEO of Biotechonomy , a research and investment firm helping to fund new genomics firms. The Untied States of America looks at the forces threatening America's future as a unified country.
Jane,Goodall,What separates us from chimpanzees?,Primatologist, environmentalist,www.janegoodall.org,,Jane Goodall hasn't exactly found the missing link, but she's come closer than just about anyone else on Earth. Her extensive research into the behavior of chimpanzees, which started in Africa in the 1960s and continues today, fundamentally altered scientific thinking about the relationship between humans and other mammals .,Goodall, who founded a research institute in her name in 1977, is an internationally recognized authority on the primate world. She's written books for adults and children, contributed to documentaries, and serves as a National Geographic explorer-in-residence, a United Nations peace messenger, and the president of Advocates for Animals . For her efforts to observe and preserve all species, Goodall has received honors and accolades from governments, nonprofits, universities, and professional organizations, including a medal from UNESCO and the French Legion of Honor in 2006.
Seth,Godin,How to get your ideas to spread,Marketer and author, sethgodin.com,,Seth Godin may be the ultimate entrepreneur for the Information Age, Mary Kuntz wrote in Business Week nearly a decade ago.  Instead of widgets or car parts, he specializes in ideas -- usually, but not always, his own. In fact, he's as focused on spreading ideas as he is on the ideas themselves. After working as a software brand manager in the mid-1980s, Godin started Yoyodyne, one of the first Internet-based direct-marketing firms, with the notion that companies needed to rethink how they reached customers . His efforts caught the attention of Yahoo!, which bought the company in 1998 and kept Godin on as a vice president of permission marketing. Godin has produced several critically acclaimed and attention-grabbing books, including Permission Marketing, All Marketers Are Liars, and Purple Cow (which was distributed in a milk carton). In 2005, Godin founded Squidoo.com , a Web site where users can share links and information about an idea or topic important to them.,“[Godin] is a demigod on the Web, a best-selling author, highly sought-after lecturer, successful entrepreneur, respected pundit and high-profile blogger. He is uniquely respected for his understanding of the Internet.” — Forbes.comJames,Watson,How we discovered DNA,Biologist, Nobel laureate,www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/.../1962/watson-bio.html,,James Watson has led a long, remarkable life , starting at age 12, when he was one of radio's high-IQ Quiz Kids. By age 15, he had enrolled in the University of Chicago, and by 25, working with Francis Crick (and drawing, controversially, on the research of Maurice Wilkins and Rosalind Franklin), he had made the discovery that would eventually win the three men the Nobel Prize.,Watson and Crick's 1953 discovery of DNA's double-helix structure paved the way for the astounding breakthroughs in genetics and medicine that marked the second half of the 20th century . And Watson's classic 1968 memoir of the discovery, The Double Helix , changed the way the public perceives scientists, thanks to its candid account of the personality conflicts on the project.
Al,Seckel,Visual illusions that show how we (mis)think,Master of visual illusions,www.alseckel.net/,,Al Seckel takes great delight in visual illusions and the brain mechanics that they reveal. A cognitive neuroscientist who until 2005 was at the California Institute of Technology, he is the author of many books and articles and has compiled several eye tricks calendars. Seckel has designed interactive museum exhibits around the world that allow visitors to play with illusions and understand how they work .,He is a noted lecturer, a member of the Edge Foundation, a founder of the Southern California Skeptics, a campaigner against the teaching of creationism in public schools -- and co-creator of the Darwin Fish. Since leaving Caltech in 2005 to pursue writing and his own research, he has continued his work in spatial imagery with psychology researchers at Harvard.
Dean,Kamen,To invent is to give,Inventor,www.dekaresearch.com/founder.shtml,,Dean Kamen is an innovator, but not just of things. He hopes to revolutionize attitudes, quality of life, awareness. While an undergraduate, he developed the first portable infusion device, which delivers drug treatments that once required round-the-clock hospital care. And, through his DEKA Research and Development , which he cofounded in 1982, he developed a portable dialysis machine, a vascular stent, and the iBOT -- a motorized wheelchair that climbs stairs (Stephen Colbert took one for a spin).,Yes, he's a college dropout, but he's a huge believer in education, and in 1989 established the nonprofit FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) to inspire teenagers to pursue careers in science. FIRST sponsors lively annual competitions, where students form teams to create the best robot.
Stefan,Sagmeister,Happiness by design,Graphic designer,www.sagmeisterwalsh.com,,Stefan Sagmeister is no mere commercial gun for hire. Sure, he's created eye-catching graphics for clients including the Rolling Stones and Lou Reed, but he pours his heart and soul into every piece of work. His design work is at once timeless and of the moment, and his painstaking attention to the smallest details creates work that offers something new every time you look at it. While a sense of humor invariably surfaces in his designs, Sagmeister is nonetheless very serious about his work, his intimate approach and sincere thoughtfulness elevate his desig n. A genuine maverick, Sagmeister achieved notoriety in the 1990s as the designer who self-harmed in the name of craft He created a poster advertising a speaking engagement by carving the salient details onto his torso.,“Sagmeister's CD package designs are what poetry is to prose distilled, intense, cunning, evocative and utterly complete. His intentions have set a new standard.” — I.D. Magazine
Alex,Steffen,The route to a sustainable future,Planetary futurist,AlexSteffen.com,,Do you ever wonder whether we should be optimistic or pessimistic about the future? If you want more reasons to think things may still turn out for the better, Alex Steffen's your man. He doesn't downplay the scope and scale of the problems we face. Instead, he shows that we have the tools within our grasp for meeting those massive challenges, if we have the will to use them. This isn't just hopeful thinking, either. Steffen uses real-world examples and big-picture research to show us that a brighter, greener future is ours to choose, and his work has earned him the ear of leading cities, corporations and philanthropic foundations. As the New York Time s said a recent profile, Alex Steffen lays out the blueprint for a successful century. After working as a journalist on four continents, Steffen co-founded and ran the online magazine Worldchanging.com from 2003-2010. In those seven years, he made Worldchanging one of the world's leading sustainability-related publications with an archive of almost 12,000 articles and a large global audience. He also edited an internationally best-selling book surveying innovative solutions to the planet's most pressing problems Worldchanging A User's Guide for the 21st Century . His most recent work is Carbon Zero , a book describing cities that create prosperity not climate change, accelerating their economies while reducing their climate emissions to zero. He is now at work on a new book and a television project. The big open secret about sustainability work, he recently told Design Observer magazine, 'is not how bad things are. It is how good things can get.,“His vision of the future isn't granola and porridge. It's what he calls 'bright green' creating and buying products and systems that are smart, sexy, sleek, and sustainable.” — Living on Earth
Thom,Mayne,How architecture can connect us,Architect,morphosis.com/,,Widely regarded as one of the world's most provocative architects, Thom Mayne is only interested in exploring the new, the present and the now. For him, architecture is not a matter of producing a readily imaginable building, but is instead a starting point for a larger discussion. The output of his Santa Monica-based studio, Morphosis , shows the results of the negotiations between concept and reality .,As Mayne describes things, the only constant in his professional career has been people telling him something can't be done. But he and his studio continue to produce astonishing work for clients worldwide, including government offices, hospitals, restaurants, residences and schools. Redefining how buildings work both within themselves and within their environment , Mayne and Morphosis are forging dramatic new landscapes for a startlingly modern world.
Chris,Bangle,Great cars are great art,Car designer,www.chrisbangleassociates.com/,,American designer Chris Bangle understands that it can be difficult to see a car in terms of Art with a capital A . As such, he separates his work into issues of automobiles (unemotional products, causing problems such as pollution and congestion) and car-iness (an expansion of the human, and ultimately a truly artistic expression). Satisfying the tensions between these problems -- and the tensions between engineers and designers -- is, for him, the essence of his work.,Offering radical forms and ideas , Bangle has been a polarizing figure within the industry, he has overseen all of the brands within the BMW family, including Mini and Rolls-Royce . In 2009, Bangle left BMW to pursue his own personal design interests and develop his consulting firm, Chris Bangle Associates.
Nora,York,Singing What I Want,Singer, performance artist,norayork.com/,,Nora York is an adventurous jazz singer and performance artist whose genre-crossing work defies easy categorization. With a sultry, soulful voice and hypnotic stage presence, York has carved out a territory all her own — call her a singer-songwriter-truthteller (the Village Voice did). She brings a witty and literate twist to her performances, recombining songs and merging genres in thought-provoking ways.,Voice is at the center of York’s expression and creative invention, which emcompasses composition, live performance, and visual and multimedia arts. She's released four CDs To Dream The World , Alchemy , What I Want (representing the outcome of the ‘02 NYSCA commission) and Power/Play . She has performed at universities and music festivals, most notably the Newport Jazz Festival, New Sounds Live series at Merkin Hall NYC, and Lincoln Center Out of Doors. York teaches musicianship and performance as member of the faculty at the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music, New York University. For her latest project, York received a Robert Rauschenberg Foundation grant to write and present the multimedia concert Water Water Everywhere.
Paul,Bennett,Design is in the details,Designer, creative director, Ideo,https//www.ideo.com/people/paul-bennett,,As creative director at the influential design and innovation company Ideo , Paul Bennett manages to keep his eye on the little things that matter, though his clients are among the biggest in the world (Procter & Gamble and Pepsi, to name but two). Small is the new big,Bennett says. And his design approach reflects this philosophy. For often, it's not the biggest ideas that have the most impact, but the small, the personal, and the intimate .,Trained as a graphic designer, Bennett is a pragmatic design evangelist, preaching fervently that design can make the world a better place , and providing playful, inspired examples of how it does.
Vik,Muniz,Art with wire, sugar, chocolate and string,Artist,vikmuniz.net,,Slf-effacing, frankly open and thought-provoking, all at the same time, Vik Muniz explores the power of representation. He's known for his masterful use of unexpected materials such as chocolate syrup, toy soldiers and paper confetti, but his resulting images transcend mere gimmickry. Most recently, he's been working with a team at MIT to inscribe a castle on a grain of sand ...,Muniz is often hailed as a master illusionist, but he says he's not interested in fooling people. Rather, he wants his images to show people a measure of their own belief. Muniz has exhibited his playfully provocative work in galleries all over the world and was featured in the documentary Waste Land , which follows Muniz around the largest garbage dump in Rio de Janeiro, as he photographs the collectors of recycled materials in which he finds inspiration and beauty. Describing the history of photography as the history of blindness, his images simply but powerfully remind a viewer of what it means to see, and how our preconceptions can color every experience.
Nick,Bostrom,A philosophical quest for our biggest problems,Philosopher,nickbostrom.com,,“Bostrom cogently argues that the prospect of superintelligent machines is ‘the most important and most daunting challenge humanity has ever faced.’ If we fail to meet this challenge, he concludes, malevolent or indifferent artificial intelligence (AI) will likely destroy us all.” — Reason, September 12, 2014,
Janine,Benyus,Biomimicry's surprising lessons from nature's engineers,Science writer, innovation consultant, conservationist,biomimicry.net ,,In the world envisioned by science author Janine Benyus, a locust's ability to avoid collision within a roiling cloud of its brethren informs the design of a crash-resistant car, a self-cleaning leaf inspires a new kind of paint, one that dries in a pattern that enables simple rainwater to wash away dirt , and organisms capable of living without water open the way for vaccines that maintain potency even without refrigeration -- a hurdle that can prevent life-saving drugs from reaching disease-torn communities. Most important, these cool tools from nature pull off their tricks while still managing to preserve the environment that sustains them , a life-or-death lesson that humankind is in need of learning.,As a champion of biomimicry , Benyus has become one of the most important voices in a new wave of designers and engineers inspired by nature. Her most recent project, AskNature , explores what happens if we think of nature by function and looks at what organisms can teach us about design.
Craig,Venter,Sampling the ocean's DNA,Biologist, genetics pioneer,jcvi.org,,Craig Venter, the man who led the private effort to sequence the human genome, is hard at work now on even more potentially world-changing projects.,First, there's his mission aboard the Sorcerer II , a 92-foot yacht , which, in 2006, finished its voyage around the globe to sample, catalouge and decode the genes of the ocean's unknown microorganisms. Quite a task, when you consider that there are tens of millions of microbes in a single drop of sea water. Then there's the J. Craig Venter Institute , a nonprofit dedicated to researching genomics and exploring its societal implications.
Golan,Levin,Software (as) art,Experimental audio-visual artist,golancourses.net/,,Having worked as an academic at MIT and a researcher specializing in computer technology and software engineering, Golan Levin now spends most of his time working as a performance artist. Rest assured his education hasn't gone to waste, however, as Levin blends high tech and customized software programs to create his own extraordinary audio and visual compositions . The results are inordinately experimental sonic and visual extravaganzas from the furthest left of the field.,Many of his pieces force audience participation, such as Dialtones A Telesymphony , a concert from 2001 entirely composed of the choreographed ringtones of his audience . Regularly exhibiting pieces in galleries around the world, and also working as an Assistant Professor of Electronic Time-Based Art at Carnegie Mellon University, Levin is unapologetically pushing boundaries to define a brave new world of what is possible.
Frans,Lanting,The story of life in photographs,Nature photographer,www.lanting.com/,,In the pursuit of his work, Frans Lanting has lived in the trees with wild macaws, camped with giant tortoises inside a volcanic crater , and documented never-before-photographed wildlife and tribal traditions in Madagascar. The Dutch-born, California-based photographer has traveled to Botswana's Okavango Delta, the rain forests of Borneo and the home of emperor penguins in Antarctica. The resulting photographs -- staggering in their beauty, startling in their originality -- have brought much-needed attention to endangered species and ecological crises throughout the world. In 2001, HRH Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands inducted Lanting as a Knight in the Royal Order of the Golden Ark, the country's highest conservation honor -- just one of many honors he has received throughout his illustrious career.,“As a chronicler of natural history today, Frans Lanting is a singular extraordinary talent. He has the mind of a scientist, the heart of a hunter, and the eyes of a poet.” —
Susan,Savage-Rumbaugh,The gentle genius of bonobos,Primate authority,chimptrainersdaughter.blogspot.com/.../the-latest-crisis-in-ongoing30-ye,,Into the great debate over intelligence and instinct -- over what makes us human -- Susan Savage-Rumbaugh has thrown a monkey wrench. Her work with apes has forced a new way of looking at what traits are truly and distinctly human , and new questions about whether some abilities we attribute to species are in fact due to an animal's social environment. She believes culture and tradition, in many cases more than biology, can account for differences between humans and other primates.,Her bonobo apes, including a superstar named Kanzi, understand spoken English, interact, and have learned to execute tasks once believed limited to humans -- such as starting and controlling a fire. They aren't trained in classic human-animal fashion. Like human children, the apes learn by watching. Parents really don't know how they teach their children language, she has said. Why should I have to know how I teach Kanzi language? I just act normal around him, and he learns it.
Sheila,Patek,The shrimp with a kick!,Biologist, biomechanics researcher,https//pateklab.biology.duke.edu/users/sheila-patek,,Sheila Patek, a UC Berkeley biologist, made a name for herself by measuring the hyperfast movements of snail-smashing mantis shrimp heels and bug-snapping ant jaws, using high-speed video cameras recording at up to 20,000 frames per second. In 2004, she and her team showed that peacock mantis shrimp had the fastest feeding strike in the animal kingdom, and that they are the only known animal to store energy in a hyperbolic paraboloid, a super-strong Pringles-shaped structure more often found in modern architecture. Then in 2006, she and her team announced that trap-jaw ants had stolen the title of fastest striker from the mantis shrimp, when their research measured the ants' snapping jaws at an awesome 78 to 145 miles per hour, accelerating at 100,000 times the force of gravity. Patek's previous research focused on the sounds made by spiny lobsters, discovering that they used a mechanism similar to a violin. In 2004, she was named one of Popular Science magazine's Brilliant 10. The Patek Lab at University of Massachusetts Amherst, where Patek is the principal investigator, continues to explore evolutionary questions through the integration of physiology, biomechanics, evolutionary analysis and animal behavior.,“[Sheila] Patek has parsed the mechanics of the odd antenna twitches that lobsters use to make noise and is helping develop a physiology-based method to predict what each lobster species would sound like. Recently, she proved that the peacock mantis shrimp has the fastest kick in the animal kingdom.” — Popular Science
Bill,Clinton,My wish Rebuilding Rwanda,Activist,https//www.clintonfoundation.org/,,Elected President of the United States in 1992 and again in 1996, Bill Clinton left office determined to continue his life of service -- to build the kind of world he wants to hand down to his daughter. His William J. Clinton Foundation is focused on four critical areas health security, with an emphasis on HIV/AIDS, economic empowerment, leadership development and citizen service, and racial, ethnic and religious reconciliation.,Foundation projects include working with pharmaceutical companies to lower the costs of medicines to needy areas , and, through his Clinton Foundation HIV/AIDS Initiative (CHAI) , developing an innovative health care system that can be successful and sustainable throughout the developing world. His Clinton Global Initiative brings together world leaders to discuss the world's most pressing challenges.
E.O.,Wilson,My wish Build the Encyclopedia of Life,Biologist,eowilsonfoundation.org/e-o-wilson/,,One of the world's most distinguished scientists, E.O. Wilson is a professor and honorary curator in entomology at Harvard. In 1975, he published Sociobiology The New Synthesis, a work that described social behavior, from ants to humans .,Drawing from his deep knowledge of the Earth's little creatures and his sense that their contribution to the planet's ecology is underappreciated, he produced what may be his most important book, The Diversity of Life . In it he describes how an intricately interconnected natural system is threatened by man's encroachment , in a crisis he calls the sixth extinction (the fifth one wiped out the dinosaurs).
James,Nachtwey,My wish Let my photographs bear witness,Photojournalist,jamesnachtwey.com,,For the past three decades, James Nachtwey has devoted himself to documenting wars, conflicts and critical social issues, working in El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Lebanon, the West Bank and Gaza, Israel, Indonesia, Thailand, India, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, the Philippines, South Korea, Somalia, Sudan, Rwanda, South Africa, Russia, Bosnia, Chechnya, Kosovo, Romania, Brazil and the United States. Nachtwey has been a contract photographer with Time since 1984. However, when certain stories he wanted to cover -- such as Romanian orphanages and famine in Somalia -- garnered no interest from magazines, he self-financed trips there. He is known for getting up close to his subjects, or as he says, in the same intimate space that the subjects inhabit, and he passes that sense of closeness on to the viewer. In putting himself in the middle of conflict, his intention is to record the truth, to document the struggles of humanity, and with this, to wake people up and stir them to action.,“Reticent about discussing his own life beyond the basic facts, he's clearly one of those rare characters who focus singularly on their work with a missionary-like sense of purpose.” — Salon.comCarl,Honoré,In praise of slowness,Journalist,www.carlhonore.com/,,Canadian-born journalist Carl Honoré has written for The Economist, the Houston Chronicle, the Observer, and the National Post, but he is best known for his advocacy of the Slow Movement . A loose and international effort by the harried and haggard to decelerate the pace of their lives, the Slow Movement spans everything from telecommunications ( slow email ) and health care (slow medicine) to diet ( slow food ) and public space ( slow cities ). Honore's bestselling book In Praise of Slowness plots the lineage of our speed-obsessed society , while it recognizes the difficulty of slowing down, it also highlights the successes of everyday people around the world who have found ways of doing it. Honoré traces his Aha moment to his son's bedtime, when Honore would race through storybooks -- skipping pages, reading portions of paragraphs -- to move things along. (He's since reformed.) His latest book, Under Pressure , is about how we are raising a generation of overprogrammed, overachieving and exhausted children.,“[Honore] shows us various methods to release ourselves ... from what Baudelaire denounced as 'the horrible burden of time,' to break free of the Matrix -like illusion that we have no choice. ” — The Washington Post
Saul,Griffith,Everyday inventions,Inventor,www.saulgriffith.com/,,Innovator and inventor Saul Griffith has a uniquely open approach to problem solving. Whether he's devising a way to slash the cost of prescription eyeglasses or teaching science through cartoons, Griffith makes things and then shares his ideas with the world .,A proponent of open-source information, he established Instructables , an open website showing how to make an array of incredible objects. He is the co-founder of numerous companies including Squid Labs , Low Cost Eyeglasses , Potenco and Makani Power , where he is President and Chief Scientist. His companies have invented a myriad of new devices and materials, such as a smart rope that senses its load, or a machine for making low-cost eyeglass lenses through a process inspired by a water droplet. He is a columnist at Make magazine and co-writes How Toons! He's fascinated with materials that assemble themselves, and with taking advantage of those properties to make things quickly and cheaply.
Neil,Gershenfeld,Unleash your creativity in a Fab Lab,Physicist, personal fab pioneer,ng.cba.mit.edu/,,MIT's Neil Gershenfeld is redefining the boundaries between the digital and analog worlds. The digital revolution is over, Gershenfeld says. We won. What comes next? His Center for Bits and Atoms has developed quite a few answers, including Internet 0, a tiny web server that fits into lightbulbs and doorknobs, networking the physical world in previously unimaginable ways.,But Gershenfeld is best known as a pioneer in personal fabrication -- small-scale manufacturing enabled by digital technologies, which gives people the tools to build literally anything they can imagine. His famous Fab Lab is immensely popular among students at MIT, who crowd Gershenfeld's classes. But the concept is potentially life-altering in the developing world, where a Fab Lab with just $20,000 worth of laser cutters, milling machines and soldering irons can transform a community, helping people harness their creativity to build tools, replacement parts and essential products unavailable in the local market. Read more in Fab The Coming Revolution on Your Desktop .
Pilobolus,,A dance of Symbiosis,Dance company,www.pilobolus.com,,Pilobolus began as an experiment among three guys and one puzzled professor in a Dartmouth dance class back in 1970. It was survival of the giddiest, as the three non-dancers goofed around with the material they'd been given -- themselves -- and got entangled in science-inspired poses (think soft-belly protoplasmic thing) and movements. From these humble, biological beginnings has emerged an innovative, unlikely and almost-uncategorizable dance company that combines athleticism, grace and humor with a profound sense of unity . Their smooth, organic choreography -- featuring unusual partnering and lifts -- often blurs the lines between individual performers, creating a sense of dance-troupe-as-organism . Still evolving after 35 years, Pilobolus has built up a repertoire of more than 85 works and received numerous awards, including the Samuel H. Scripps American Dance Festival Award for lifetime achievement in choreography. Their hilarious appearance at the 2007 Oscars -- where they built witty silhouettes to punctuate the ceremony -- brought the troupe further into the public eye.,“Your beliefs in the nature of strength, endurance and gravity will not hold. In fact, they will be defied. And every time you think, 'Whoa, how the hell did they do that?' they will take it further.” — Dance Insider
Anna,Deavere,Four American characters,Actor, playwright, social critic,annadeaveresmithprojects.net/,,Hailed by Newsweek as the most exciting individual in American theater, Anna Deavere Smith uses solo performance as a public medium to explore issues of race, identity and community in America . Her grandfather once told her, Say a word often enough, and it becomes you.,Inspired by this and Walt Whitman's idea to absorb America, Deavere Smith began interviewing people (more than 2,000 now) across the country some 20 years ago. Without props, sets or costumes, she translates those encounters into profound performances, each drawing verbatim from the original recorded interview. She has an uncanny ability to inhabit the characters -- or rather the people -- she's representing onstage, regardless of their race, gender or age. And while her approach to cultural commentary is now widely imitated, she remains the master of the form. Her play, Let Me Down Easy , premiered this year at the Long Wharf Theater.
Steven,Johnson,How the ghost map helped end a killer disease,Writer,www.stevenberlinjohnson.com/,,A dynamic writer and speaker, Johnson crafts captivating theories that draw on a dizzying array of disciplines, without ever leaving his audience behind. Author Kurt Anderson described Johnson's book Emergence as thoughtful and lucid and charming and staggeringly smart. The same could be said for Johnson himself. His big-brained, multi-disciplinary theories make him one of his generation's more intriguing thinkers. His books take the reader on a journey -- following the twists and turns his own mind makes as he connects seemingly disparate ideas ants and cities, interface design and Victorian novels.,Johnson's breakout 2005 title, Everything Bad Is Good for You , took the provocative stance that our fear and loathing of popular culture is misplaced, video games and TV shows, he argues, are actually making us smarter. His appearances on The Daily Show and Charlie Rose cemented his reputation as a cogent thinker who could also pull more than his share of laughs. His most recent work, The Ghost Map , goes in another direction entirely It tells the story of a cholera outbreak in 1854 London, from the perspective of the city residents, the doctors chasing the disease, and the pathogen itself. The book shows how the epidemic brought about profound changes in science, cities and modern society. His upcoming work, Where Good Ideas Come From The Natural History of Innovation , tells the fascinating stories of great ideas and great thinkers across disciplines.
Charles,Leadbeater,The era of open innovation,Innovation consultant,charlesleadbeater.net,,Charles Leadbeater's theories on innovation have compelled some of the world's largest organizations to rethink their strategies. A financial journalist turned innovation consultant (for clients ranging from the British government to Microsoft), Leadbeater noticed the rise of pro-ams -- passionate amateurs who act like professionals , making breakthrough discoveries in many fields, from software to astronomy to kite-surfing. His 2004 essay The Pro-Am Revolution -- which The New York Times called one of the year's biggest global ideas -- highlighted the rise of this new breed of amateur. Prominent examples range from the mountain bike to the open-source operating system Linux, from Wikipedia to the Jubilee 2000 campaign , which helped persuade Western nations to cancel more than $30 billion in third-world debt. In his upcoming book, We-Think , Leadbeater explores how this emerging culture of mass creativity and participation could reshape companies and governments . A business reporter by training, he was previously an editor for the Financial Times , and later, The Independent , where, with Helen Fielding, he developed the Bridget Jones' Diary column. Currently, he is researching for Atlas of Ideas , a program that is mapping changes in the global geography of science and innovation.,“Charles Leadbeater is an extraordinarily interesting thinker. His book asks critical questions. I know it will be widely read and debated.” — Tony Blair
Martin,Rees,Is this our final century?,Astrophysicist,ast.cam.ac.uk,,Lord Martin Rees has issued a clarion call for humanity. His 2004 book, ominously titled Our Final Hour , catalogues the threats facing the human race in a 21st century dominated by unprecedented and accelerating scientific change. He calls on scientists and nonscientists alike to take steps that will ensure our survival as a species. One of the world's leading astronomers, Rees is an emeritus professor of cosmology and astrophysics at Cambridge , and UK Astronomer Royal. Author of more than 500 research papers on cosmological topics ranging from black holes to quantum physics to the Big Bang, Rees has received countless awards for his scientific contributions. But equally significant has been his devotion to explaining the complexities of science for a general audience, in books like Before the Beginning and Our Cosmic Habitat .,“It is Sir Martin's eminent position as a leading cosmologist, studying the Universe, its birth and ultimate fate, which makes his new pronouncements both important and thought-provoking.” — BBC
Robert,Wright,Progress is not a zero-sum game,Journalist, philosopher,www.nonzero.org/author.htm,,Author Robert Wright thinks the crises the human species now faces are moral in nature, and that our salvation lies in the intelligent pursuit of self-interest. In his book Nonzero , Wright argues that life depends on a non-zero-sum dynamic. While a zero-sum game depends on a winner and loser, all parties in a non-zero-sum game win or lose together, so players will more likely survive if they cooperate. This points to an optimistic future of ultimate cooperation among humans -- if we recognize the game. Well-respected for his erudition and original thinking (Bill Clinton hailed him as a genius), Wright draws from multiple disciplines -- including science, religion, history and politics -- in his search for big-picture perspectives on today's problems , particularly terrorism, while offering guarded hope for where we might be headed. A Schwartz Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation , Wright also hosts an interview series with celebrated thinkers at Meaningoflifetv.com .,Wright's newest book, The Evolution of God , explores the history of the idea of God in the three Abrahamic religions, Judaism, Islam and Christianity.
Wade,Davis,Dreams from endangered cultures,Anthropologist, ethnobotanist,daviswade.com,,Wade Davis is perhaps the most articulate and influential western advocate for the world's indigenous cultures. A National Geographic Explorer-in-Residence, he has been described as “a rare combination of scientist, scholar, poet and passionate defender of all of life’s diversity.” Trained in anthropology and botany at Harvard, he travels the globe to live alongside indigenous people, and document their cultural practices in books, photographs, and film. His stunning photographs and evocative stories capture the viewer's imagination. As a speaker, he parlays that sense of wonder into passionate concern over the rate at which cultures and languages are disappearing -- 50 percent of the world's 7,000 languages, he says, are no longer taught to children. He argues, in the most beautiful terms, that language is much more than vocabulary and grammatical rules. Every language is an old-growth forest of the mind.,Indigenous cultures are not failed attempts at modernity, let alone failed attempts to be us. They are unique expressions of the human imagination and heart, unique answers to a fundamental question What does it mean to be human and alive? When asked this question, the peoples of the world respond in 7,000 different voices, and these collectively comprise our human repertoire for dealing with all the challenges that will confront us as a species over the coming centuries.
Phil,Borges,Photos of endangered cultures,Photographer,www.philborges.com/,,Spurred by the rapid disappearance of the world's indigenous peoples and their oral traditions, Phil Borges abandoned his orthodontic practice to pursue his first love, photography. For the past 25 years, he has traveled to the farthest reaches of the globe to meet with persecuted Tibetan monks engaged in nonviolent struggle and embattled tribespeople of the Ecuadorian Amazon who must defend their way of life by any means necessary. Through interviews and portraiture, Borges examines his subjects' valuable beliefs and stories and documents their tribulations with dignity.,He is the founder of Bridges to Understanding , an interactive online classroom that promotes cross-cultural learning between indigenous and American youths. By teaching teenagers how to share stories through digital filmmaking, Borges hopes they'll develop the mental flexibility and cultural sensitivity to understand and appreciate belief systems outside their own. Borges' feature-length documentary, CRAZYWISE , takes a look at America’s mental health care crisis and examines what we could learn from the way different cultures define and treat mental illness.
Bjorn,Lomborg,Global priorities bigger than climate change,Global prioritizer,www.lomborg.com/,,Bjorn Lomborg isn't afraid to voice an unpopular opinion. In 2007, he was named one of the 100 Most Influential People by Time magazine after the publication of his controversial book The Skeptical Environmentalist , which challenged widely held beliefs that the environment is getting worse. This year, he was named on of the 50 people who cold save the planet by the Guardian newspaper. In 2007 he published Cool It The Skeptical Environmentalist's Guide to Global Warming , further analyzes what today's science tells us about global warming and its risks. That same year, his next book Solutions for the World's Biggest Problems was released, which provided a summary of the greatest challenges facing humanity.,In 2004, he convened the Copenhagen Consensus , which tries to prioritize the world's greatest challenges based on the impact we can make, a sort of bang-for-the-buck breakdown for attacking problems such as global warming, world poverty and disease. It begins from the premise that we can't solve every problem in the world, and asks Which ones should we fix first? The Copenhagen Consensus 2004 tapped the expertise of world-leading economists, as well as a diverse forum of young participants, collectively, they determined that control of HIV/AIDS was the best investment -- and mitigating global warming was the worst. Lomborg summarized these findings in How to Spend $50 Billion to Make the World a Better Place . In spring of 2008, Copenhagen Consensus convened again, assembling over 55 international economists, including 4 Nobel laureates, to assess, prioritize and brainstorm solutions for the major global challenges of today, including conflicts, malnutrition, health, education and terrorism. In 2013, he published How to Spend $75 Billion to Make the Wolrd a Better Place .
Robert,Neuwirth,The hidden world of shadow cities,Author,squattercity.blogspot.com/,,In his 2012 book Stealth of Nations , Robert Neuwirth challenges conventional thinking by examining the world's informal economy close up. To do so, he spent four years living and working with street vendors and gray marketers, to capture its scope, its vigor--and its lessons. He calls it “System D” and argues that it is not a hidden economy, but a very visible, growing, effective one, fostering entrepreneurship and representing 1.8 billion jobs worldwide.,Before this, for his previous book Shadow Cities (also a TEDTalk ), he spent two years exploring one of the most profound trends of our time the mass migration of the world's population into urban shantytowns. A billion people live as squatters. Life in a favela, slum, shantytown is hard no water, no transport, no sewage. But in the squatter cities of Rio, Nairobi, Istanbul and Mumbai, Neuwirth discovered restaurants, markets, clinics and effective forms of self-organization.
Richard,St.,8 secrets of success,Marketer, success analyst,www.richardstjohn.com/,,Richard St. John was on his way to the TED conference when a girl on the plane asked him, What really leads to success? Even though he had achieved some success, he couldn't explain how he did it. So he spent the next ten years researching success and asking over 500 extraordinarily successful people in many fields what helped them succeed. After analyzing, sorting, and correlating millions of words of research, and building one of the most organized databases on the subject of success, he discovered The 8 Traits Successful People Have in Common and wrote the bestseller 8 To Be Great .,In his books and talks,he shares a wealth of wisdom from the world's most successful people -- knowledge that can help others succeed in their own way, whether it's escaping poverty, building a business, raising a family, or changing the world.
Rives,,If I controlled the Internet,Performance poet, multimedia artist,https//www.ted.com/speakers/rives,,Part poet, part storyteller, part philosopher, Rives is the co-host of TEDActive as well as a frequent TED speaker. On stage, his poems burst in many directions, exposing multiple layers and unexpected treats childhood memories, grown-up humor, notions of love and lust, of what is lost forever and of what's still out there waiting to unfold. Chimborazo .,A regular on HBO's Def Poetry Jam , Rives also starred alongside model Bar Refaeli in the 2008 Bravo special Ironic Iconic America , touring the United States on a roller coaster ride through the eye-popping panorama of American pop culture. Flat pages can't contain his storytelling, even when paper is his medium. The pop-up books he creates for children unfold with surprise The Christmas Pop-Up Present expands to reveal moving parts, hidden areas and miniature booklets inside.
Dean,Ornish,The killer American diet that's sweeping the planet,Physician, author,deanornish.com,,Dr. Dean Ornish wants you to live longer, and have more fun while you're at it. He's one of the leading voices in the medical community promoting a balanced, holistic approach to health, and proving that it works. The author of Eat More, Weigh Less and several other best-selling books, Ornish is best known for his lifestyle-based approach to fighting heart disease .,His research at the Preventive Medicine Research Institute (the nonprofit he founded) clinically demonstrated that cardiovascular illnesses -- and, most recently prostate cancer -- can be treated and even reversed through diet and exercise . These findings (once thought to be physiologically implausible) have been widely chronicled in the US media, including Newsweek , for which Ornish writes a column. The fifty-something physician, who's received many honors and awards, was chosen by LIFE Magazine as one of the most influential members of his generation. Among his many pursuits, Ornish is now working with food corporations to help stop America's obesity pandemic from spreading around the globe.
Peter,Gabriel,Fight injustice with raw video,Musician, activist,petergabriel.com/,,Peter Gabriel was a founding member of the extraordinarily successful progressive rock band Genesis. He left the band in 1975 to go solo and, in 1980, set up the international arts festival WOMAD (which stands for World of Music, Arts and Dance) and the record label Real World , both to champion music and artistic innovation from all over the world. Gabriel's stop motion video for Sledgehammer has been named the most-played music video in the history of MTV.,Gabriel is also very interested in human rights. In 1992, he co-founded WITNESS.org , an organization that helps human rights activists and citizen witnesses worldwide make change happen through the use of video. The organization not only distributes digital cameras to empower people to document human-rights abuses, but provides a platform for the spread of video that reveals what is really going on in places all over the globe.
Ray,Kurzweil,The accelerating power of technology,Inventor, futurist,kurzweilai.net,,Inventor, entrepreneur, visionary, Ray Kurzweil's accomplishments read as a startling series of firsts -- a litany of technological breakthroughs we've come to take for granted. Kurzweil invented the first optical character recognition (OCR) software for transforming the written word into data, the first print-to-speech software for the blind, the first text-to-speech synthesizer, and the first music synthesizer capable of recreating the grand piano and other orchestral instruments, and the first commercially marketed large-vocabulary speech recognition. Yet his impact as a futurist and philosopher is no less significant. In his best-selling books, which include How to Create a Mind , The Age of Spiritual Machines , The Singularity Is Near When Humans Transcend Biology , Kurzweil depicts in detail a portrait of the human condition over the next few decades, as accelerating technologies forever blur the line between human and machine.,In 2009, he unveiled Singularity University , an institution that aims to assemble, educate and inspire leaders who strive to understand and facilitate the development of exponentially advancing technologies. He is a Director of Engineering at Google, where he heads up a team developing machine intelligence and natural language comprehension.
Kevin,Kelly,How technology evolves,Digital visionary,kk.org/,,Perhaps there is no one better to contemplate the meaning of cultural change -- bad? good? too slow? too bold? -- than Kevin Kelly, whose life story reads like a treatise on the value of technology . Whether by renouncing all material things save his bicycle (which he then rode 3,000 miles), founding an organization (the All-Species Foundation) to catalog all life on earth, or by touting new gadgets in WIRED, Kelly hasn't stopped exploring the phenomena of technical and biological creation. In articles for the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, among others, he has celebrated scientific breakthroughs, and at the Long Now Foundation , where he serves on the board, he champions projects that look 10,000 years into the future. One such project is the Rosetta Project, which will catalogue more than 1,000 languages on a disks to be placed nearby the 10,000 Year Clock. Kelly's newest book What Technology Wants asks what appears to be his life's core question How should I think about new technology when it comes along?,Kelly discusses the 7th Kingdom at length in the July 18, 2007, edition of Edge.org.
Peter,Donnelly,How juries are fooled by statistics,Mathematician, statistician,donnellyillustration.com/,,Peter Donnelly applies statistical methods to real-world problems, ranging from DNA analysis (for criminal trials), to the treatment of genetic disorders. A mathematician who collaborates with biologists , he specializes in applying probability and statistics to the field of genetics, in hopes of shedding light on evolutionary history and the structure of the human genome.,The Australian-born, Oxford-based mathematician is best known for his work in molecular evolution (tracing the roots of human existence to their earliest origins using the mutation rates of mitochondrial DNA). He studies genetic distributions in living populations to trace human evolutionary history -- an approach that informs research in evolutionary biology, as well as medical treatment for genetic disorders. Donnelly is a key player in the International HapMap Project , an ongoing international effort to model human genetic variation and pinpoint the genes responsible for specific aspects of health and disease, its implications for disease prevention and treatment are vast.
Michael,Shermer,Why people believe weird things,Skeptic,michaelshermer.com,,As founder and publisher of Skeptic Magazine , Michael Shermer has exposed fallacies behind intelligent design, 9/11 conspiracies, the low-carb craze, alien sightings and other popular beliefs and paranoias. But it's not about debunking for debunking's sake. Shermer defends the notion that we can understand our world better only by matching good theory with good science. Shermer's work offers cognitive context for our often misguided beliefs In the absence of sound science, incomplete information can powerfully combine with the power of suggestion (helping us hear Satanic lyrics when Stairway to Heaven plays backwards, for example). In fact, a common thread that runs through beliefs of all sorts, he says, is our tendency to convince ourselves We overvalue the shreds of evidence that support our preferred outcome, and ignore the facts we aren't looking for.,He writes a monthly column for Scientific American , and is an adjunct at Claremont Graduate University and Chapman University. His latest book is The Believing Brain From Ghosts and Gods to Politics and Conspiracies—How We Construct Beliefs and Reinforce Them as Truths . He is also the author of The Mind of the Market , on evolutionary economics, Why Darwin Matters Evolution and the Case Against Intelligent Design , and The Science of Good and Evil . And his next book is titled The Moral Arc of Science.
Bono,,My wish Three actions for Africa,Musician, activist,www.atu2.com/band/bono/,,Irreverent, funny, iconoclastic and relentless, Bono has proven himself stunningly effective in encouraging and cajoling the world's most powerful leaders to take seriously the challenge of disease and hunger and seize the historic opportunity we now have to beat extreme poverty, especially in Africa, through technological innovation, smart aid, transparency and investments which put citizens in charge.,As lead singer of U2 , Bono performed at Live Aid in 1985, which inspired him to travel to Ethiopia with his wife, Ali. There they spent several weeks helping with a famine relief project. The experience shocked him and ignited a determination to work for change. In Bono's own words, What are the blind spots of our age? It might be something as simple as our deep-down refusal to believe that every human life has equal worth. In 2005, the year of Make Poverty History , Bono became one of the inaugural winners of the TED Prize , he used his wish to raise awareness and inspire activism.
Edward,Burtynsky,My wish Manufactured landscapes and green education,Photographer,edwardburtynsky.com,,To describe Canadian photographer Edward Burtynsky's work in a single adjective, you have to speak French jolie-laide. His images of scarred landscapes -- from mountains of tires to rivers of bright orange waste from a nickel mine -- are eerily pretty yet ugly at the same time. Burtynsky's large-format color photographs explore the impact of humanity's expanding footprint and the substantial ways in which we're reshaping the surface of the planet. His images powerfully alter the way we think about the world and our place in it.,With his blessing and encouragement, WorldChanging.com and others use his work to inspire ongoing global conversations about sustainable living. Burtynsky's photographs are included in the collections of over 50 museums around the world, including the Tate, London and the Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim in New York City. A large-format book, 2003's Manufactured Landscapes, collected his work, and in 2007, a documentary based on his photography, also called Manufactured Landscapes , debuted at the Toronto Film Festival before going on to screen at Sundance and elsewhere. It was released on DVD in March 2007. In 2008, after giving a talk at the Long Now Foundation, Burtynsky proposed The 10,000 Year Gallery, which could house art to be curated over thousands of years preserved through carbon transfers in an effort to reflect the attitudes and changes of the world over time.
Robert,Fischell,My wish Three unusual medical inventions,Biomedical inventor,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Fischell,,Robert Fischell began his work in space development, and created a 16-satellite system called Transit that was a key precursor to GPS. When he turned his attention to medical devices, he had the key insight that a pacemaker is like a tiny satellite within the body. The medical devices he has pioneered -- starting with a pacemaker that didn't require a new battery every two years -- have saved thousands of lives and improved countless more.,Fischell's true genius is his ability to see across technologies and sciences. His uncanny intuition allowed him to invent special features of the implantable cardiac defibrillator that has saved more than 60,000 lives -- followed by the implantable insulin pump, coronary stents used to open clogged arteries, and two extraordinary feedback systems that provide early warning of epileptic seizures and heart attacks. Though he is officially retired, he continues to create new devices to treat a wide range of ailments, from heart attacks to chronic migraines.
Burt,Rutan,The real future of space exploration,Aircraft engineer,www.burtrutan.com/,,Burt Rutan is widely regarded as one of the world's most important industrial designers, and his prolific contributions to air- and spacecraft design have driven the industry forward for decades. His two companies, Rutan Aircraft Factory and Scaled Composites , have developed and flight-tested more new types of aircraft than the rest of the US industry combined. He has himself designed hundreds of aircraft, including the famous Voyager, which his brother piloted on a record-breaking nine-day nonstop flight around the world.,Rutan might also be the person to make low-cost space tourism a reality He's one of the major players promoting entrepreneurial approaches to space exploration , and his collaboration with Virgin Galactic is the most promising of these efforts. SpaceShipTwo, a collaboration between Richard Branson and Rutan completed its first captive carry in March of 2010, marking the beginning of the era of commercial space exploration.
Ben,Saunders,Why did I ski to the North Pole?,Arctic explorer, bensaunders.com,,Although most of the planet's surface was mapped long ago, there's still a place for explorers in the modern world. And Ben Saunders' stories of arctic exploration -- as impressive for their technical ingenuity as their derring-do -- are decidedly modern. In 2004, at age 26, he skied solo to the North Pole, updating his blog each day of the trip. Humble and self-effacing, Saunders is an explorer of limits, whether it's how far a human can be pushed physically and psychologically, or how technology works hundreds of miles from civilization. His message is one of inspiration, empowerment and boundless potential. He urges audiences to consider carefully how to spend the “tiny amount of time we each have on this planet.” Saunders is also a powerful advocate for the natural world. He's seen first-hand the effects of climate change, and his expeditions are raising awareness for sustainable solutions.,Being the youngest person to ski solo to the North Pole did not satiate Saunders' urge to explore and push the boundaries. In 2008, he attempted to break the speed record for a solo walk to the North Pole, however, his journey was ended abruptly both then and again in 2010 due to equipment failure. From October 2013 to February 2014, he led a two-man team to retrace Captain Robert Falcon Scott’s ill-fated 1,800-mile expedition to the South Pole on foot. He calls this journey the hardest 105 days of his life.
Sasa,Vucinic,Why we should invest in a free press,Nonprofit venture capitalist,www.mdif.org ,,We want to create a new class of media entrepreneurs, says Sasa Vucinic, whose innovative approach to incubating a free press treats independent media like startups instead of charity cases. In most of the countries where his Media Development Loan Fund is active, management skills are dramatically lacking, and too often, grants backfire by creating a dependency that cannot be sustained when the Western donors leave.,All the projects supported by MDLF espouse the reverse philosophy It doesn't give grants. Instead, it strives to help independent media with the business of providing news. Only when a media company can sustain itself with its own revenues, says Vucinic, can it be truly independent. Vucinic comes by his free-press focus through experience, prior to founding the MDLF , he was a top editor with Belgrade opposition radio station B92 . He's also worked for the Soros Foundations Network (which later became the Open Society Institute), advising the national foundations on how to support independent media.
Ashraf,Ghani,How to rebuild a broken state,President-elect of Afghanistan,ps.ashrafghani.com/,,Ashraf Ghani became Afghanistan’s new president-elect on September 21, 2014. He will share power with Abdullah Abdullah in a national unity government.,Before Afghanistan's President Karzai asked him, at the end of 2001, to become his advisor and then Finance Minister, Ghani had spent years in academia studying state-building and social transformation, and a decade in executive positions at the World Bank trying to effect policy in these two fields. In just 30 months, he carried out radical and effective reforms (a new currency, new budget, new tariffs, etc) and was instrumental in preparing for the elections of October 2004. In 2006, he was a candidate to succeed Kofi Annan as Secretary General of the United Nations, and one year later, was put in the running to head the World Bank. He served as Chancellor of Kabul University, where he ran a program on state effectiveness. His message to the world Afghanistan should not be approached as a charity, but as an investment.
Iqbal,Quadir,How mobile phones can fight poverty,Founder, GrameenPhone,https//legatum.mit.edu/iqbal-quadir,,As a kid in rural Bangladesh in 1971, Iqbal Quadir had to walk half a day to another village to find the doctor -- who was not there. Twenty years later he felt the same frustration while working at a New York bank, using diskettes to share information during a computer network breakdown. His epiphany In both cases, connectivity is productivity. Had he been able to call the doctor, it would have saved him hours of walking for nothing. Partnering with microcredit pioneer GrameenBank , in 1997 Quadir established GrameenPhone , a wireless operator now offering phone services to 80 million rural Bangladeshi. It's become the model for a bottom-up, tech-empowered approach to development. Phones have a triple impact, Quadir says. They provide business opportunities, connect the village to the world, and generate over time a culture of entrepreneurship, which is crucial for any economic development.,“GrameenPhone has increased the country’s GDP by a far greater amount than repeated infusions of foreign aid. ” — The New Nation
Jacqueline,Novogratz,Invest in Africa's own solutions,Social entrepreneur,acumen.org/people/board/jacqueline-novogratz/,,One of the most innovative players shaping philanthropy today, Jacqueline Novogratz is redefining the way problems of poverty can be solved around the world. Drawing on her past experience in banking, microfinance and traditional philanthropy, Novogratz has become a leading proponent for financing entrepreneurs and enterprises that can bring affordable clean water, housing and healthcare, energy, agriculture and education to poor people so that they no longer have to depend on the disappointing results and lack of accountability seen in traditional charity and old-fashioned aid .,Acumen , which she founded in 2001, has an ambitious plan to change the way the world tackles poverty . Indeed, Acumen has more in common with a venture capital fund than a typical nonprofit. Rather than handing out grants, Acumen invests in early stage companies and organizations that bring critical -- often life-altering -- products and services to the world's poor. Like VCs, Acumen offers not just money, but also infrastructure and management expertise. From drip-irrigation systems in India to high quality solar lighting solutions in East Africa to a low-cost mortgage program in Pakistan, Acumen's portfolio offers important case studies for entrepreneurial efforts aimed at the vastly underserved market of those making less than $4/day.
Eva,Vertes,Meet the future of cancer research,Student, cancer researcher,pathology.ufl.edu ›,,Eva Vertes may not yet have the answers she needs to cure cancer, but she's asking some important -- and radical questions If smoking can cause lung cancer, and drinking can cause liver cancer, is it possible that cancer is a direct result of injury? If so, could cancer be caused by the body's own repair system going awry?,She asks this and other breathtaking questions in her conference-closing 2005 talk. Her approach marks an important shift in scientific thinking , looking in brand-new places for cancer's cause -- and its cure. Her ultimate goal, which even she calls far-fetched, is to fight cancer with cancer.
Aubrey,de,A roadmap to end aging,Crusader against aging,www.sens.org,,A true maverick, Aubrey de Grey challenges the most basic assumption underlying the human condition -- that aging is inevitable. He argues instead that aging is a disease -- one that can be cured if it's approached as an engineering problem. His plan calls for identifying all the components that cause human tissue to age, and designing remedies for each of them — forestalling disease and eventually pushing back death. He calls the approach Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence (SENS) .,With his astonishingly long beard, wiry frame and penchant for bold and cutting proclamations, de Grey is a magnet for controversy . A computer scientist, self-taught biogerontologist and researcher, he has co-authored journal articles with some of the most respected scientists in the field.
Dan,Gilbert,The surprising science of happiness,Psychologist, happiness expert,www.danielgilbert.com/,,Dan Gilbert believes that, in our ardent, lifelong pursuit of happiness, most of us have the wrong map. In the same way that optical illusions fool our eyes -- and fool everyone's eyes in the same way -- Gilbert argues that our brains systematically misjudge what will make us happy . And these quirks in our cognition make humans very poor predictors of our own bliss. The premise of his current research -- that our assumptions about what will make us happy are often wrong -- is supported with clinical research drawn from psychology and neuroscience. But his delivery is what sets him apart. His engaging -- and often hilarious -- style pokes fun at typical human behavior and invokes pop-culture references everyone can relate to. This winning style translates also to Gilbert's writing, which is lucid, approachable and laugh-out-loud funny . The immensely readable Stumbling on Happiness , published in 2006, became a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 20 languages. In fact, the title of his book could be drawn from his own life. At 19, he was a high school dropout with dreams of writing science fiction. When a creative writing class at his community college was full, he enrolled in the only available course psychology. He found his passion there, earned a doctorate in social psychology in 1985 at Princeton, and has since won a Guggenheim Fellowship and the Phi Beta Kappa teaching prize for his work at Harvard. He has written essays and articles for The New York Times, Time and even Starbucks , while continuing his research into happiness at his Hedonic Psychology Laboratory .,“Gilbert's elbow-in-the-ribs social-science humor is actually funny. ... But underneath the goofball brilliance, [he] has a serious argument to make about why human beings are forever wrongly predicting what will make them happy.” — New York Times Book Review
Barry,Schwartz,The paradox of choice,Psychologist,www.swarthmore.edu/SocSci/bschwar1/,,In his 2004 book The Paradox of Choice , Barry Schwartz tackles one of the great mysteries of modern life Why is it that societies of great abundance — where individuals are offered more freedom and choice (personal, professional, material) than ever before — are now witnessing a near-epidemic of depression? Conventional wisdom tells us that greater choice is for the greater good, but Schwartz argues the opposite  He makes a compelling case that the abundance of choice in today's western world is actually making us miserable. Infinite choice is paralyzing, Schwartz argues, and exhausting to the human psyche. It leads us to set unreasonably high expectations, question our choices before we even make them and blame our failures entirely on ourselves. His relatable examples, from consumer products (jeans, TVs, salad dressings) to lifestyle choices (where to live, what job to take, who and when to marry), underscore this central point Too much choice undermines happiness. Schwartz's previous research has addressed morality, decision-making and the varied inter-relationships between science and society. Before Paradox he published The Costs of Living , which traces the impact of free-market thinking on the explosion of consumerism -- and the effect of the new capitalism on social and cultural institutions that once operated above the market, such as medicine, sports, and the law . Both books level serious criticism of modern western society, illuminating the under-reported psychological plagues of our time. But they also offer concrete ideas on addressing the problems , from a personal and societal level.,“Whether choosing a health-care plan, choosing a college class or even buying a pair of jeans, Schwartz shows that a bewildering array of choices floods our exhausted brains, ultimately restricting instead of freeing us.” — Publisher’s Weekly
Steven,Levitt,The freakonomics of crack dealing,Economist,freakonomics.com,,With his 2005 book Freakonomics (co-authored with Stephen Dubner, a writer who profiled him for the New York Times ), Steven Levitt carried hardcore economic method into the squishy real world and produced a pop-culture classic. Freakonomics is both an economics textbook and a series of cautionary tales about the fallacy of conventional wisdom . Levitt examines the links between real-world events, and finds many instances where the data simply doesn't back up popular belief. He asks provocative questions If selling crack is so lucrative, why do dealers live with their mothers? Does parental doting really improve children's test scores? Did New York City's crime rate really drop because of police tactics (or population trends)? His controversial answers stir debate , and sometimes backlash.,Read Steven Levitt's Reddit AMA >>
Malcolm,Gladwell,Choice, happiness and spaghetti sauce,Writer,gladwell.com,,Malcolm Gladwell searches for the counterintuitive in what we all take to be the mundane cookies, sneakers, pasta sauce. A New Yorker staff writer since 1996, he visits obscure laboratories and infomercial set kitchens as often as the hangouts of freelance cool-hunters -- a sort of pop-R&D gumshoe -- and for that has become a star lecturer and bestselling author. Sparkling with curiosity, undaunted by difficult research (yet an eloquent, accessible writer), his work uncovers truths hidden in strange data . His always-delightful blog tackles topics from serial killers to steroids in sports, while provocative recent work in the New Yorker sheds new light on the Flynn effect -- the decades-spanning rise in I.Q. scores. Gladwell has written four books. The Tipping Point , which began as a New Yorker piece, applies the principles of epidemiology to crime (and sneaker sales), while Blink examines the unconscious processes that allow the mind to thin slice reality -- and make decisions in the blink of an eye. His third book, Outliers , questions the inevitabilities of success and identifies the relation of success to nature versus nurture. The newest work, What the Dog Saw and Other Adventures , is an anthology of his New Yorker contributions.,He says There is more going on beneath the surface than we think, and more going on in little, finite moments of time than we would guess.
David,Deutsch,Chemical scum that dream of distant quasars,Quantum physicist,www.daviddeutsch.org.uk/,,David Deutsch will force you to reconsider your place in the world. This legendary Oxford physicist is the leading proponent of the multiverse (or many worlds) interpretation of quantum theory -- the idea that our universe is constantly spawning countless numbers of parallel worlds .,In his own words Everything in our universe -- including you and me, every atom and every galaxy -- has counterparts in these other universes. If that doesn't alter your consciousness, then the other implications he's derived from his study of subatomic physics -- including the possibility of time travel -- just might.
Richard,Dawkins,Why the universe seems so strange,Evolutionary biologist, RichardDawkins.net,,As an evolutionary biologist, Richard Dawkins has broadened our understanding of the genetic origin of our species, as a popular author, he has helped lay readers understand complex scientific concepts. He's best-known for the ideas laid out in his landmark book The Selfish Gene and fleshed out in The Extended Phenotype  the rather radical notion that Darwinian selection happens not at the level of the individual, but at the level of our DNA . The implication We evolved for only one purpose — to serve our genes. Of perhaps equal importance is Dawkins' concept of the meme , which he defines as a self-replicating unit of culture -- an idea, a chain letter, a catchy tune, an urban legend -- which is passed person-to-person, its longevity based on its ability to lodge in the brain and inspire transmission to others. Introduced in The Selfish Gene in 1976, the concept of memes has itself proven highly contagious, inspiring countless accounts and explanations of idea propagation in the information age. In recent years, Dawkins has become outspoken in his atheism , coining the word bright (as an alternate to atheist), and encouraging fellow non-believers to stand up and be identified. His controversial, confrontational 2002 TED talk was a seminal moment for the New Atheism, as was the publication of his 2006 book, The God Delusion , a bestselling critique of religion that championed atheism and promoted scientific principles over creationism and intelligent design.,“Dawkins ... is a master of scientific exposition and synthesis. When it comes to his own specialty, evolutionary biology, there is none better.” — Jim Holt, The New York Times
Helen,Fisher,Why we love, why we cheat,Anthropologist, expert on love,www.helenfisher.com/,,Helen Fisher's courageous investigations of romantic love -- its evolution, its biochemical foundations and its vital importance to human society -- are informing and transforming the way we understand ourselves. Fisher describes love as a universal human drive (stronger than the sex drive, stronger than thirst or hunger, stronger perhaps than the will to live) , and her many areas of inquiry shed light on timeless human mysteries, like why we choose one partner over another.,Almost unique among scientists, Fisher explores the science of love without losing a sense of romance  Her work frequently invokes poetry, literature and art -- along with scientific findings -- helping us appreciate our love affair with love itself. In her research, and in books such as Anatomy of Love , Why We Love , and her latest work Why Him? Why Her? How to Find and Keep Lasting Love , Fisher looks at questions with real impact on modern life. Her latest research raises serious concerns about the widespread, long-term use of antidepressants, which may undermine our natural process of attachment by tampering with hormone levels in the brain.
Eve,Ensler,Happiness in body and soul,Playwright, activist,www.eveensler.org/,,Inspired by intimate conversations with friends, Eve Ensler wrote The Vagina Monologues . The play recounts tender, funny, gripping and horrifying stories she gathered from hundreds of women about their bodies, their sexual experiences, and yes, their vaginas. Since its first staging in 1996, it has been translated into more than 45 languages, performed in more than 120 countries and re-created as an HBO film. The Vagina Monologues ' success allowed Ensler to create V-Day , a global activist movement to end violence against women and girls, which has so far raised $85 million to prevent violence and protect abused women. In February 2011, Ensler received the Isabelle Stephenson Tony Award for her philanthropic work. Ensler has also drawn praise for The Good Body , a play that cuts to women's obsession with their appearance, and her film What I Want My Words to Do to You , which portrays a writing group she leads at a correctional facility for women. Today, she continues to find new projects and push the envelope. Her latest play, I Am an Emotional Creature The Secret Life of Girls Around the World , hit the New York Times bestseller list and just wrapped a workshop production in Johannesburg -- nest stop is Paris and then Berkeley in June 2012.,“Eve is bringing women back, she's giving us our souls back.” — Glenn Close
Ze,Frank,Nerdcore comedy,Humorist, web artist,zefrank.com,,Ever since his How to Dance Properly viral video -- born as a party invite for 17 friends -- hit the Web in 2001, Ze Frank has been making people giggle, guffaw and gasp out loud whilst procrastinating at work. He defines, in many ways, the genre of online comedy, and continues to innovate madly on the form.,In 2006 he launched a year-long daily video blog called The Show with Ze Frank , which Slate.com called the best sustained comedy run in the history of the Web. His rapid-fire delivery and absurd explorations in audience participation (like Earth Sandwich) has influenced a generation of digital native YouTubers. Perhap his most brilliant move calling on fans to write the show for him. Using collaborative tools, online viewers collectively put words in his mouth (and props in his lap), he faithfully performed this wiki-comedy each week for his Fabuloso Friday show.
Mena,Trott,Meet the founder of the blog revolution,Blogger, cofounder, Six Apart,www.dollarshort.org/,,Time 's 2006 Person of the Year is You, which is to say, everybody The many wresting power from the few and helping one another for nothing. The tools of this revolution have come in no small part from Six Apart , a 2002 startup that helped enable the blogging boom with its products. And co-founder Mena Trott, who rose to Internet fame with her own blog, DollarShort , has become a strong voice explaining the role of personal blogging in today's culture.,Trott and her husband Ben developed Movable Type for their own use in 2001, but it became immensely popular and they dove in full-time. By the time they were preparing their blog-hosting service TypePad , investors were knocking on the door. In 2004, the company grew from seven employees to 50, with Mena Trott serving as chief executive, as well as an interface designer. Today, having acquired LiveJournal and introduced rich-media sharing platform Vox , Six Apart 's software gives online voice to millions of people and organizations worldwide.
Jimmy,Wales,The birth of Wikipedia,Founder of Wikipedia,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jimmy_Wales,,Jimmy Wales went from betting on interest rates and foreign-currency fluctuations (as an option trader) to betting on the willingness of people to share their knowledge. That's how Wikipedia , imagined in 2001, became one of the most-referenced, most-used repositories of knowledge on the planet , with more than four and a half million articles in English (compared with the Britannica 's 80,000) and millions in dozens of other languages, all freely available. The wiki in the name refers to software that allows anyone with Internet access to add, delete or edit entries. This has led to controversies about the reliability of the information, prompting the Wikimedia Foundation to set tighter rules for editors, while still keeping Wikipedia open-source. One thing is certain Wikipedia will never be finished. In the meantime Wales has started working on Wikiasari, a wiki-style search engine.,“Wikipedia represents a belief in the supremacy of reason and the goodness of others. ... From the respectful clash of opposing viewpoints and the combined wisdom of the many, something resembling the truth will emerge. Most of the time.” — WIRED
Richard,Baraniuk,The birth of the open-source learning revolution,Education visionary,OpenStaxCollege.org,,Rice University professor Richard Baraniuk has a giant vision to create a free global online education system that puts the power of creation and collaboration in the hands of teachers worldwide. He's realizing that vision with OpenStax (formerly named Connexions), a website that allows teachers to quickly create, rip, mix and burn coursework -- without fear of copyright violations. Think of it as Napster for education.,OpenStax's open-source system cuts out the textbook, allowing teachers to share course materials, modify existing work and disseminate it to their students -- all for free, thanks to Creative Commons licensing. Baraniuk envisions OpenStax as a repository where the most up-to-date material can be shared and reviewed (it's far more efficient than waiting for a textbook to be printed), it could become a powerful force in leveling the education playing field. Currently encompassing hundreds of online courses and used by a million people worldwide, Baraniuk's virtual educational system is revolutionizing the way people teach and learn.
Amy,Smith,Simple designs to save a life,inventor, engineer,d-lab.mit.edu/people/amy_smith,,Mechanical engineer Amy Smith's approach to problem-solving in developing nations is refreshingly common-sense Invent cheap, low-tech devices that use local resources, so communities can reproduce her efforts and ultimately help themselves. Smith, working with her students at MIT's D-Lab, has come up with several useful tools, including an incubator that stays warm without electricity, a simple grain mill, and a tool that converts farm waste into cleaner-burning charcoal. The inventions have earned Smith three prestigious prizes the B.F. Goodrich Collegiate Inventors Award, the MIT-Lemelson Prize, and a MacArthur genius grant. Her course, Design for Developing Countries, is a pioneer in bringing humanitarian design into the curriculum of major institutions . Going forward, the former Peace Corps volunteer strives to do much more, bringing her inventiveness and boundless energy to bear on some of the world's most persistent problems.,“Smith has a stable of oldfangled technologies that she has reconfigured and applied to underdeveloped areas around the world. Her solutions sound like answers to problems that should have been solved a century ago. To Smith, that's the point.” — Wired News
Ross,Lovegrove,Organic design, inspired by nature,Industrial designer,www.rosslovegrove.com/,,Ross Lovegrove is truly a pioneer of industrial design. As founder of Studio X in the Notting Hill area of London, the Welsh-born designer has exuberantly embraced the potential offered by digital technologies. However, he blends his love of high tech with a belief that the natural world had the right idea all along  Many of his pieces are inspired by principles of evolution and microbiology. Delightedly crossing categories, Lovegrove has worked for clients as varied as Apple, Issey Miyake, Herman Miller and Airbus, and in 2005 he was awarded the World Technology Award for design . His personal artwork has been exhibited at MoMA in New York, the Pompidou Centre in Paris and the Design Museum in London . Lovegrove's astonishing objects are the result of an ongoing quest to create forms that, as he puts it, touch people's soul .,“Lovegrove's specialty is in qualifying the present moment in design, rather than restyling the past, by employing new technologies with new materials to define new shapes.” — New York Times
Sirena,Huang,An 11-year-old's magical violin,Violinist,https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sirena_Huan,,Only 11 years old when she performed at TED, Sirena Huang is still technically a child. But as anyone who sees her perform can attest, she has a musician's soul that transcends her years . Her musical imagination is boundless, said Juilliard dean Stephen Clapp, who described her as a musical artist with qualities of maturity far beyond her age.,What's most striking in her performance style is the way she combines technical ability with emotional force and nuance . Her fiercely virtuoso performances are profoundly moving, even via podcast. Amazed, delighted and spellbound are the words bloggers often use after watching her play. She has won numerous awards for her brilliant performances worldwide, and has played for the likes of French president Nicolas Sarkozy, King Abdullah II of Jordan, and the Dalai Lama.
Jennifer,Lin,Improvising on piano, aged 14,Pianist, composer,usa.yamaha.com › News & Events › Corporate,,A student of the Yamaha Music Education System from the age of 4, pianist Jennifer Lin has an unusual talent for improvisation. Speaking at TED, she compared her creative process to drawing a comic, and admitted that the state of flow -- when she is able produce beautiful music instantly -- cannot be forced . Her virtuoso performances, particularly the improvisations, are profoundly moving, and -- even via podcast -- have been known to reduce listeners to tears. As one blogger recorded, I was listening to a presentation by a 14-year old girl named Jennifer Lin who plays the piano like whoa ... I wasn't expecting it, and when she was a minute or two into the piece, I was literally crying in the crowded subway car. Lin was featured on ABC World News Tonight as Person of the Week and also appeared on a Little Geniuses segment on Oprah, where Winfrey declared her a miracle prodigy.,“An exciting young talent who wants to touch the world.” — Peter Jennings, ABC World News Tonight
Nicholas,Negroponte,One Laptop per Child,Tech visionary,www.media.mit.edu/~nicholas,,A pioneer in the field of computer-aided design, Negroponte founded (and was the first director of) MIT's Media Lab , which helped drive the multimedia revolution and now houses more than 500 researchers and staff across a broad range of disciplines. An original investor in Wired (and the magazine's patron saint), for five years he penned a column exploring the frontiers of technology -- ideas that he expanded into his 1995 best-selling book Being Digital . An angel investor extraordinaire, he's funded more than 40 startups, and served on the boards of companies such as Motorola and Ambient Devices.,But his latest effort, the One Laptop per Child project, may prove his most ambitious. The organization is designing, manufacturing and distributing low-cost, wireless Internet-enabled computers costing roughly $100 and aimed at children. Negroponte hopes to put millions of these devices in the hands of children in the developing world.
Jeff,Han,The radical promise of the multi-touch interface,Human-computer interface designer,www.jeffhandesign.com,,Jeff Han's intuitive interface-free computer displays -- controlled by the touch of fingertips -- will change forever the way you think about computers. At TED 2006, the audience whistled, clapped and gasped audibly as Han demoed (for the first time publicly) his prototype drafting table-cum-touch display , developed at NYU's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences . The demo included a virtual lightbox, where he moved photos by fingertip -- as if they were paper on a desk -- flicking them across the screen and zooming in and out by pinching two fingers together, as well as a Google Earth-like map that he tilted and flew over with simple moves.,When the demo hit the web, bloggers and YouTubers made him a bit of a megastar. (His video has been watched more than 600,000 times on YouTube alone, Amazing, Incredible and Freaking awesome are the typical responses there. Also When can I buy one? ) After this legendary demo, Han launched a startup called Perceptive Pixel -- and when he came back to TED2007, he and his team brought an entire interactive wall, where TEDsters lined up to play virtual guitars. His talent and reputation earned him a place on Time Magazine's 2008 list of the world's 100 Most Influential People.
Cameron,Sinclair,My wish A call for open-source architecture,Co-founder, Architecture for Humanity,www.cameronsinclair.com/,,After training as an architect, Cameron Sinclair (then age 24) joined Kate Stohr to found Architecture for Humanity , a nonprofit that helps architects apply their skills to humanitarian efforts. Starting with just $700 and a simple web site in 1999, AFH has grown into an international hub for humanitarian design, offering innovative solutions to housing problems in all corners of the globe . Whether rebuilding earthquake-ravaged Bam in Iran, designing a soccer field doubling as an HIV/AIDS clinic in Africa, housing refugees on the Afghan border, or helping Katrina victims rebuild, Architecture for Humanity works by Sinclair's mantra  Design like you give a damn . (Sinclair and Stohr cowrote a book by the same name, released in 2006.) A regular contributor to the sustainability blog Worldchanging.com , Sinclair is now working on the Open Architecture Network , born from the wish he made when he accepted the 2006 TED Prize  to build a global, open-source network where architects, governments and NGOs can share and implement design plans to house the world.,“Cameron Sinclair is doing his best to save the world, one emergency shelter and mobile AIDS clinic at a time.” — Washington Post
Jehane,Noujaim,My wish A global day of film,Filmmaker,www.noujaimfilms.com/,,Two weeks before the US invaded Iraq in 2003, Jehane Noujaim gained access to both Al Jazeera and the US military's Central Command offices in Qatar. By being in the right place at that very wrong time, she caught the onset and outbreak of the Iraq war on film . The resulting documentary, Control Room , exposed the very divergent ways the Arabs and the West covered the war. Being raised between Egypt and the US, the exploration of culture is one of Jehane's driving forces. Her reason for making the film It’s important for everyone, simply as individuals, to try to understand different people and different cultures, but it’s especially important for people in the United States because we affect so much of the world beyond our borders.,Noujaim's TED Prize wish -- for a world-uniting Pangea Day of film -- happened in May 2008 in more than 100 cities and online, in a worldwide festival of film, art, music, performance and speakers.
Larry,Brilliant,My wish Help me stop pandemics,Epidemiologist, philanthropist,www.skollfoundation.org/staff/larry-brilliant/,,Larry Brilliant's career path, as unlikely as it is inspirational, has proven worthy of his surname. Trained as a doctor, he was living in a Himalayan monastery in the early 1970s when his guru told him he should help rid the world of smallpox . He joined the World Health Organization's eradication project, directed efforts to eliminate the disease in India and eventually presided over the last case of smallpox on the planet.,Not content with beating a single disease, he founded the nonprofit Seva Foundation , which has cured more than two million people of blindness in 15 countries (through innovative surgery, self-sufficient eye care systems, and low-cost manufacturing of intraocular lenses). Outside the medical field, he found time to cofound the legendary online community The Well, and run two public technology companies. Time and WIRED magazines call him a technology visionary.
Dan,Dennett,Let's teach religion — all religion — in schools,Philosopher, cognitive scientist,ase.tufts.edu/cogstud/,,One of our most important living philosophers, Dan Dennett is best known for his provocative and controversial arguments that human consciousness and free will are the result of physical processes in the brain. He argues that the brain's computational circuitry fools us into thinking we know more than we do, and that what we call consciousness — isn't. His 2003 book Freedom Evolves explores how our brains evolved to give us -- and only us -- the kind of freedom that matters, while 2006's Breaking the Spell examines belief through the lens of biology. This mind-shifting perspective on the mind itself has distinguished Dennett's career as a philosopher and cognitive scientist. And while the philosophy community has never quite known what to make of Dennett (he defies easy categorization, and refuses to affiliate himself with accepted schools of thought), his computational approach to understanding the brain has made him, as Edge's John Brockman writes, “the philosopher of choice of the AI community.” “It's tempting to say that Dennett has never met a robot he didn't like, and that what he likes most about them is that they are philosophical experiments,” Harry Blume wrote in the Atlantic Monthly in 1998. “To the question of whether machines can attain high-order intelligence, Dennett makes this provocative answer ‘The best reason for believing that robots might some day become conscious is that we human beings are conscious, and we are a sort of robot ourselves.',In recent years, Dennett has become outspoken in his atheism, and his 2006 book Breaking the Spell calls for religion to be studied through the scientific lens of evolutionary biology. Dennett regards religion as a natural -- rather than supernatural -- phenomenon, and urges schools to break the taboo against empirical examination of religion. He argues that religion's influence over human behavior is precisely what makes gaining a rational understanding of it so necessary “If we don't understand religion, we're going to miss our chance to improve the world in the 21st century.”
Rick,Warren,A life of purpose,Pastor, author,rickwarren.org/,,Pastor Rick Warren is one of the world's most influential Christians. His Saddleback Church , founded in 1980, boasts a congregation of 22,000, and his Purpose-Driven Life is one of the best-selling books of all time. Warren's mission is to attack what he calls the five Global Goliaths -- spiritual emptiness, egocentric leadership, extreme poverty, pandemic disease, and illiteracy and poor education.,He teaches that doing good is the only way humans create significance in our lives . He and his wife famously became reverse tithers, donating 90 percent of their considerable fortune to philanthropic causes. Warren is particularly passionate about fighting AIDS, and in 2006, his church hosted the second annual Global Summit on AIDS and the Church, attended by US Senator Barack Obama, among others (controversial within the evangelical movement, because Obama is pro-choice). In recent years, Warren has become a prominent steward of social justice , speaking out on poverty relief and encouraging spiritual leaders to play a role in guiding the planet toward sustainability . (He even attended the premiere of An Inconvenient Truth , after meeting Al Gore and producer Lawrence Bender at TED2006.) Given his global focus and considerable platform, Warren has become a sought-after advisor to world leaders , speaking at the United Nations , the World Economic Forum and the Council on Foreign Relations . His involvement in the 2008 Presidential election sparked controversy and praise from both sides, during the campaign trail, he hosted candidates John McCain and Barack Obama at Saddleback Church for a forum on moral issues. It was the first time McCain and Obama appeared together publicly as presidential candidates. When Barack Obama was later elected to office, he asked Warren to give the invocation at his inauguration.
Julia,Sweeney,Letting go of God,Actor, comedian, playwright,juliasweeney.com,,Known for her four-year run on Saturday Night Live and her powerful solo shows, Julia Sweeney is carving out her own territory in entertainment, one that moves between the personal and the political, the controversial and the comical. Her piece Letting Go of God traces a spiritual journey that takes an unexpected turn toward science (a turn that, incidentally, also led her to TED) and ends with atheism. Her latest book is If It's Not One Thing, It's Your Mother, on parenting and being parented. In this, as in all her performances, Sweeney projects a warmth and sincerity on stage that's unmatched in today's theater, you immediately feel you're chatting with an old friend. And this gift of intimacy allows her to achieve the impossible an utterly disarming show that honestly confronts the most controversial topic of our times. Her earlier shows God Said “Ha!” and In the Family Way also garnered praise and prizes for their pairings of humor and poignant truth.,“Without breaking her affably conversational tone, in Letting Go of God she inhabits the emotional memory of each step on her path.” — New York Times
Joshua,Prince-Ramus,Behind the design of Seattle's library,Architect,www.rex-ny.com/,,“Joshua Prince-Ramus isn't just creating buildings. In a field obsessed with celebrity, he’s putting the work -- and his workers -- first.” — Fast Company,
Hans,Rosling,The best stats you've ever seen,Global health expert, data visionary,www.gapminder.org/,,Even the most worldly and well-traveled among us will have their perspectives shifted by Hans Rosling. A professor of global health at Sweden's Karolinska Institute , his current work focuses on dispelling common myths about the so-called developing world , which (he points out) is no longer worlds away from the West. In fact, most of the Third World is on the same trajectory toward health and prosperity, and many countries are moving twice as fast as the west did. What sets Rosling apart isn't just his apt observations of broad social and economic trends, but the stunning way he presents them. Guaranteed You've never seen data presented like this. By any logic, a presentation that tracks global health and poverty trends should be, in a word boring. But in Rosling's hands, data sings. Trends come to life. And the big picture — usually hazy at best — snaps into sharp focus. Rosling's presentations are grounded in solid statistics (often drawn from United Nations data), illustrated by the visualization software he developed. The animations transform development statistics into moving bubbles and flowing curves that make global trends clear, intuitive and even playful . During his legendary presentations, Rosling takes this one step farther, narrating the animations with a sportscaster's flair. Rosling developed the breakthrough software behind his visualizations through his nonprofit Gapminder , founded with his son and daughter-in-law. The free software — which can be loaded with any data — was purchased by Google in March 2007. (Rosling met the Google founders at TED.) Rosling began his wide-ranging career as a physician, spending many years in rural Africa tracking a rare paralytic disease (which he named konzo) and discovering its cause hunger and badly processed cassava. He co-founded Médecins sans Frontièrs (Doctors without Borders) Sweden , wrote a textbook on global health, and as a professor at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm initiated key international research collaborations. He's also personally argued with many heads of state, including Fidel Castro. As if all this weren't enough, the irrepressible Rosling is also an accomplished sword-swallower — a skill he demonstrated at TED2007.,“Rosling believes that making information more accessible has the potential to change the quality of the information itself.” — Business Week Online
Tony,Robbins,Why we do what we do,Life coach, expert in leadership psychology,https//www.tonyrobbins.com,,Tony Robbins might have one of the world's most famous smiles, his beaming confidence has helped sell his best-selling line of self-help books, and fill even his 10,000-seat seminars. What's less known about the iconic motivational speaker is the range and stature of his personal clients. From CEOs to heads of state to Olympic athletes , a wide swath of high-performing professionals (who are already plenty motivated, thank you very much) look to him for help reaching their full potential. Robbins' expertise in leadership psychology is what brought him to TED, where his spontaneous on-stage interaction with Al Gore created an unforgettable TED moment. It also perfectly demonstrated Robbins' direct -- even confrontational -- approach, which calls on his listeners to look within themselves, and find the inner blocks that prevent them from finding fulfillment and success . Some of his techniques -- firewalking, for example -- are magnets for criticism, but his underlying message is unassailable We all have the ability to make a positive impact on the world, and it's up to us, as individuals, to overcome our fears and foibles to reach that potential. Robbins has won many accolades for his work -- including his memorable performance in the Jack Black comedy Shallow Hal . (It was a small but vital role.) His Anthony Robbins Foundation works with the homeless, elderly and inner-city youth, and feeds more than 2 million people annually through its International Basket Brigade .,“What Tony delivers is an ever crescendoing call-and-response oratory that often gives the proceedings a teetering, Pentecostal kind of energy. ” — GQ
Ken,Robinson,Do schools kill creativity?,Author/educator,sirkenrobinson.com/,,Why don't we get the best out of people? Sir Ken Robinson argues that it's because we've been educated to become good workers, rather than creative thinkers. Students with restless minds and bodies -- far from being cultivated for their energy and curiosity -- are ignored or even stigmatized, with terrible consequences. We are educating people out of their creativity, Robinson says. It's a message with deep resonance. Robinson's TEDTalk has been distributed widely around the Web since its release in June 2006. The most popular words framing blog posts on his talk? Everyone should watch this.,A visionary cultural leader, Sir Ken led the British government's 1998 advisory committee on creative and cultural education, a massive inquiry into the significance of creativity in the educational system and the economy , and was knighted in 2003 for his achievements. His 2009 book, The Element How Finding Your Passion Changes Everything , is a New York Times bestseller and has been translated into 21 languages. A 10th anniversary edition of his classic work on creativity and innovation, Out of Our Minds Learning to be Creative , was published in 2011. His latest book, Finding Your Element How to Discover Your Talents and Passions and Transform Your Life , will be published by Viking in May 2013.
Al,Gore,Averting the climate crisis,Climate-change prophet,https//www.algore.com,,Unlike some in public office, Al Gore always intended to get something done, and since leaving Washington, DC -- following the tumultuous 2000 election -- he's still at it. In fact, his campaign for alerting the world to the dangers of climate change has only gained momentum. His Oscar-winning An Inconvenient Truth is the third most successful documentary ever released at the box office. Gore's famed PowerPoint presentation has drawn in a reluctant public, with its meticulously researched content and lucid style.,Meanwhile, Gore himself has found his footing as a communicator. The once wooden style has given way to a warmth and humor that reveal the depth of his experience as a soldier, congressman, senator, veep, TV executive, teacher and author. Arguably, Gore is better positioned today than he has ever been to affect the future of our environment and world.
David,Pogue,Simplicity sells,Technology columnist,davidpogue.com/,,Which cell phone to choose? What software to buy? Are camera-binoculars a necessity or novelty? As release cycles shorten and ever-shrinking gadgets hit the market with dizzying speed, it's harder and harder to know what's worth the investment. A tireless explorer of everyday technology, David Pogue investigates all the options so we don't have to.,After happily weathering installation nightmares, customer service hiccups, and an overwhelming crush of backups, upgrades and downloads, Pogue reports back with his recommendations via his many columns , TV appearances and how-to books . And he does it all with relatable insight, humor and an unsinkable sense of pun, er, fun . All that, and he sings, too.
Majora,Carter,Greening the ghetto,Activist for environmental justice,www.majoracartergroup.com,,Majora Carter is a visionary voice in city planning who views urban renewal through an environmental lens. The South Bronx native draws a direct connection between ecological, economic and social degradation. Hence her motto Green the ghetto!,With her inspired ideas and fierce persistence, Carter managed to bring the South Bronx its first open-waterfront park in 60 years, Hunts Point Riverside Park . Then she scored $1.25 million in federal funds for a greenway along the South Bronx waterfront , bringing the neighborhood open space, pedestrian and bike paths, and space for mixed-use economic development.